[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4506 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 294

103d CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4506

                          [Report No. 103-533]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 26, 1994

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
                                                 Union Calendar No. 294
103d CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4506

                          [Report No. 103-533]

 Making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 26, 1994

    Mr. Bevill, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, for energy 
and water development, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and 
related purposes.

                         general investigations

    For expenses necessary for the collection and study of basic 
information pertaining to river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects, restudy of authorized projects, 
miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by laws, surveys and 
detailed studies and plans and specifications of projects prior to 
construction, $179,062,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which funds are provided for the following projects in the amounts 
specified:
            Los Angeles County Water Conservation and Supply, 
        California, $700,000;
            Norco Bluffs, California, $400,000;
            Indianapolis, White River, Central Waterfront, Indiana, 
        $4,000,000;
            Ohio River Greenway, Indiana, $900,000;
            Lake George, Hobart, Indiana, $260,000;
            Little Calumet River Basin (Cady Marsh Ditch), Indiana, 
        $150,000;
            Kentucky Lock and Dam, Kentucky, $2,000,000;
            Hazard, Kentucky, $500,000;
            Mussers Dam, Pennsylvania, $200,000;
            Hartsville, Trousdale County, Tennessee, $95,000;
            West Virginia Comprehensive, West Virginia, $350,000; and
            West Virginia Port Development, West Virginia, $800,000.

                         construction, general

    For the prosecution of river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects authorized by laws; and detailed 
studies, and plans and specifications, of projects (including those for 
development with participation or under consideration for participation 
by States, local governments, or private groups) authorized or made 
eligible for selection by law (but such studies shall not constitute a 
commitment of the Government to construction), $1,023,595,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary 
pursuant to Public Law 99-662 shall be derived from the Inland 
Waterways Trust Fund, for one-half of the costs of construction and 
rehabilitation of inland waterways projects, including rehabilitation 
costs for the Lock and Dam 25, Mississippi River, Illinois and 
Missouri, and GIWW-Brazos River Floodgates, Texas, projects, and of 
which funds are provided for the following projects in the amounts 
specified:
            Red River Emergency Bank Protection, Arkansas and 
        Louisiana, $6,000,000;
            Red River Below Denison Dam Levee and Bank Stabilization, 
        Arkansas and Louisiana, $1,500,000;
            West Sacramento, California, $500,000;
            Sacramento River Flood Control Project (Glenn-Colusa 
        Irrigation District), California, $400,000;
            Sacramento River Flood Control Project (Deficiency 
        Correction), California, $3,700,000;
            San Timoteo Creek (Santa Ana River Mainstem), California, 
        $5,000,000;
            Central and Southern Florida, Florida, $11,315,000;
            Kissimmee River, Florida, $9,000,000;
            Casino Beach, Illinois, $1,000,000;
            Des Moines Recreational River and Greenbelt, Iowa, 
        $4,000,000;
            Harlan (Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River and 
        Upper Cumberland River), Kentucky, $20,000,000;
            Middlesborough (Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River 
        and Upper Cumberland River), Kentucky, $1,200,000;
            Williamsburg (Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River 
        and Upper Cumberland River), Kentucky, $3,000,000;
            Pike County (Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River 
        and Upper Cumberland River), Kentucky, $5,000,000;
            Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity (Jefferson Parish), 
        Louisiana, $800,000;
            Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity (Hurricane Protection), 
        Louisiana, $12,500,000;
            Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, $3,000,000;
            Hackensack Meadowlands Area, New Jersey, $2,500,000;
            Ramapo River at Oakland, New Jersey, $600,000;
            Salem River, New Jersey, $1,000,000;
            Carolina Beach and Vicinity, North Carolina, $2,800,000;
            Fort Fisher and Vicinity, North Carolina, $900,000;
            Broad Top Region, Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            Lackawanna River, Olyphant, Pennsylvania, $1,100,000;
            Lackawanna River, Scranton, Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            South Central Pennsylvania Environmental Restoration 
        Infrastructure and Resource Protection Development Pilot 
        Program, Pennsylvania, $7,000,000;
            Wallisville, Lake, Texas, $1,000,000;
            Richmond Filtration Plant, Virginia, $2,000,000; and
            Southern West Virginia Environmental Restoration 
        Infrastructure and Resource Protection Development Pilot 
        Program, West Virginia, $1,500,000:
Provided, That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, 
$71,000 are permanently canceled.

 flood control, mississippi river and tributaries, arkansas, illinois, 
       kentucky, louisiana, mississippi, missouri, and tennessee

    For expenses necessary for prosecuting work of flood control, and 
rescue work, repair, restoration, or maintenance of flood control 
projects threatened or destroyed by flood, as authorized by law (33 
U.S.C. 702a, 702g-1), $334,138,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $3,000,000 is provided for the Eastern Arkansas Region, 
Arkansas, project.

                   operation and maintenance, general

    For expenses necessary for the preservation, operation, 
maintenance, and care of existing river and harbor, flood control, and 
related works, including such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance of harbor channels provided by a State, municipality or 
other public agency, outside of harbor lines, and serving essential 
needs of general commerce and navigation; surveys and charting of 
northern and northwestern lakes and connecting waters; clearing and 
straightening channels; and removal of obstructions to navigation, 
$1,646,535,000, to remain available until expended, of which such sums 
as become available in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to 
Public Law 99-662, may be derived from that fund, and of which 
$37,000,000 shall be for construction, operation, and maintenance of 
outdoor recreation facilities, to be derived from the special account 
established by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965, as amended 
(16 U.S.C. 460l), and of which funds are provided for the following 
projects in the amounts specified:
            Tucson Diversion Channel, Arizona, $2,500,000;
            Jeffersonville-Clarksville, Indiana, $750,000;
            McAlpine Lock and Dam (Ohio River Locks and Dams), 
        Kentucky, $1,000,000; and
            Raystown Lake, Pennsylvania, $5,330,000:
Provided, That not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available for 
obligation for national emergency preparedness programs: Provided 
further, That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, 
$1,000 are permanently canceled.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $101,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary for emergency flood control, hurricane, and 
shore protection activities, as authorized by section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act approved August 18, 1941, as amended, $14,979,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $5,000 are permanently canceled.

                           oil spill research

    For expenses necessary to carry out the purposes of the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund, pursuant to title VII of the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990, $625,000, to be derived from the Fund and to remain available 
until expended.

                            general expenses

    For expenses necessary for general administration and related 
functions in the Office of the Chief of Engineers and offices of the 
Division Engineers; activities of the Coastal Engineering Research 
Board, the Humphreys Engineer Center Support Activity, and the Water 
Resources Support Center, $152,500,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$56,480,000 of the funds provided in this Act shall be available for 
general administration and related functions in the Office of the Chief 
of Engineers: Provided further, That no part of any other appropriation 
provided in title I of this Act shall be available to fund the 
activities of the Office of the Chief of Engineers or the Division 
Offices.

                        permanent appropriations

    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $4,000.

                  rivers and harbors contributed funds

    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $16,000.

                       administrative provisions

    During the current fiscal year the revolving fund, Corps of 
Engineers, shall be available for purchase (not to exceed 100 for 
replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

    For the purpose of carrying out provisions of the Central Utah 
Project Completion Act, Public Law 102-575 (106 Stat. 4605), 
$38,972,000, to remain available until expended, of which $22,839,000 
shall be to carry out the activities authorized under title II of the 
Act and for feasibility studies of alternatives to the Uintah and 
Upalco Units, and of which $16,133,000 shall be deposited into the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account: Provided, That of the 
amounts deposited into the Account, $5,000,000 shall be considered the 
Federal Contribution authorized by paragraph 402(b)(2) of the Act and 
$11,133,000 shall be available to the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and 
Conservation Commission to carry out the activities authorized under 
title III of the Act.
    In addition, for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out 
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior under the Act, 
$1,191,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

    For carrying out the functions of the Bureau of Reclamation as 
provided in the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 
Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) and 
other Acts applicable to that Bureau as follows:

                         general investigations

    For engineering and economic investigations of proposed Federal 
reclamation projects and studies of water conservation and development 
plans and activities preliminary to the reconstruction, rehabilitation 
and betterment, financial adjustment, or extension of existing 
projects, to remain available until expended, $14,190,000: Provided, 
That, of the total appropriated, the amount for program activities 
which can be financed by the reclamation fund shall be derived from 
that fund: Provided further, That funds contributed by non-Federal 
entities for purposes similar to this appropriation shall be available 
for expenditure for the purposes for which contributed as though 
specifically appropriated for said purposes, and such amounts shall 
remain available until expended.

                          construction program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For construction and rehabilitation of projects and parts thereof 
(including power transmission facilities for Bureau of Reclamation use) 
and for other related activities as authorized by law, to remain 
available until expended, $432,727,000 of which $23,272,000 shall be 
available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund 
authorized by section 5 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (43 U.S.C. 620d), 
and $153,793,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado 
River Basin Development Fund authorized by section 403 of the Act of 
September 30, 1968 (43 U.S.C. 1543), and such amounts as may be 
necessary shall be considered as though advanced to the Colorado River 
Dam Fund for the Boulder Canyon Project as authorized by the Act of 
December 21, 1928, as amended: Provided, That of the total 
appropriated, the amount for program activities which can be financed 
by the reclamation fund shall be derived from that fund: Provided 
further, That transfers to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund and 
Lower Colorado River Basin Development Fund may be increased or 
decreased by transfers within the overall appropriation under this 
heading: Provided further, That funds contributed by non-Federal 
entities for purposes similar to this appropriation shall be available 
for expenditure for the purposes for which contributed as though 
specifically appropriated for said purposes, and such funds shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That no part of the 
funds herein approved shall be available for construction or operation 
of facilities to prevent waters of Lake Powell from entering any 
national monument: Provided further, That all costs of the safety of 
dams modification work at Coolidge Dam, San Carlos Irrigation Project, 
Arizona, performed under the authority of the Reclamation Safety of 
Dams Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 506), as amended, are in addition to the 
amount authorized in section 5 of said Act.

                       operation and maintenance

    For operation and maintenance of reclamation projects or parts 
thereof and other facilities, as authorized by law; and for a soil and 
moisture conservation program on lands under the jurisdiction of the 
Bureau of Reclamation, pursuant to law, to remain available until 
expended, $286,521,000: Provided, That of the total appropriated, the 
amount for program activities which can be financed by the reclamation 
fund shall be derived from that fund, and the amount for program 
activities which can be derived from the special fee account 
established pursuant to the Act of December 22, 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460l-
6a, as amended), may be derived from that fund: Provided further, That 
of the total appropriated, such amounts as may be required for 
replacement work on the Boulder Canyon Project which would require 
readvances to the Colorado River Dam Fund shall be readvanced to the 
Colorado River Dam Fund pursuant to section 5 of the Boulder Canyon 
Project Adjustment Act of July 19, 1940 (43 U.S.C. 618d), and such 
readvances since October 1, 1984, and in the future shall bear interest 
at the rate determined pursuant to section 104(a)(5) of Public Law 98-
381: Provided further, That funds advanced by water users for operation 
and maintenance of reclamation projects or parts thereof shall be 
deposited to the credit of this appropriation and may be expended for 
the same purpose and in the same manner as sums appropriated herein may 
be expended, and such advances shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That revenues in the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund 
shall be available for performing examination of existing structures on 
participating projects of the Colorado River Storage Project.

              bureau of reclamation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans and/or grants, $9,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by the Small Reclamation 
Projects Act of August 6, 1956, as amended (43 U.S.C. 422a-422l): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to 
exceed $23,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
program for direct loans and/or grants, $600,000: Provided, That of the 
total sums appropriated, the amount of program activities which can be 
financed by the reclamation fund shall be derived from the fund.

                central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, and habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, to remain available until expended, 
such sums as may be assessed and collected in the Central Valley 
Project Restoration Fund pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), 
3405(f) and 3406(c)(1) of Public Law 102-575: Provided, That the Bureau 
of Reclamation is directed to levy additional mitigation and 
restoration payments totaling $37,232,000 (October 1992 price levels), 
as authorized by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575.

                    general administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses of general administration and related 
functions in the office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, $54,034,000, 
of which $1,400,000 shall remain available until expended, the total 
amount to be derived from the reclamation fund and to be 
nonreimbursable pursuant to the Act of April 19, 1945 (43 U.S.C. 377): 
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
available for activities or functions budgeted for the current fiscal 
year as general administrative expenses.

                             emergency fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency fund'', as authorized 
by the Act of June 26, 1948 (43 U.S.C. 502), as amended, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes specified in said Act, 
$1,000,000, to be derived from the reclamation fund.

                             special funds

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sums herein referred to as being derived from the reclamation fund 
or special fee account are appropriated from the special funds in the 
Treasury created by the Act of June 17, 1902 (43 U.S.C. 391) or the Act 
of December 22, 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a, as amended), respectively. 
Such sums shall be transferred, upon request of the Secretary, to be 
merged with and expended under the heads herein specified; and the 
unexpended balances of sums transferred for expenditure under the head 
``General Administrative Expenses'' shall revert and be credited to the 
reclamation fund.

                          working capital fund

    Of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $863,000 
are permanently canceled due to reduced GSA rental charges and 
$1,848,000 are permanently canceled due to efficiencies in the 
procurement process.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed 9 passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only.

                               TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

           Energy Supply, Research and Development Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy activities including the 
purchase, construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
and other expenses incidental thereto necessary for energy supply, 
research and development activities, and other activities in carrying 
out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any 
real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion; purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not 
to exceed 25, of which 19 are for replacement only), $3,302,170,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                Uranium Supply and Enrichment Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy in connection with 
operating expenses; the purchase, construction, and acquisition of 
plant and capital equipment and other expenses incidental thereto 
necessary for residual uranium supply and enrichment activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.) and the Energy Policy Act (Public Law 102-
486, section 901), including the acquisition or condemnation of any 
real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion; purchase of electricity as necessary; 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 11 for replacement 
only), $73,210,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
revenues received by the Department for residual uranium enrichment 
activities and estimated to total $9,900,000 in fiscal year 1995, shall 
be retained and used for the specific purpose of offsetting costs 
incurred by the Department for such activities notwithstanding the 
provisions of section 3302(b) of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as revenues 
are received during fiscal year 1995 so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 1995 appropriation estimated at not more than $63,310,000.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For necessary expenses in carrying out uranium enrichment facility 
decontamination and decommissioning, remedial actions and other 
activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and title X, 
subtitle A of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, $301,327,000 to be derived 
from the fund, to remain available until expended.

                General Science and Research Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy activities including the 
purchase, construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
and other expenses incidental thereto necessary for general science and 
research activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including the 
acquisition or condemnation of any real property or facility or for 
plant or facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 12 for replacement only), 
$989,031,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds made available under this section for Department of Energy 
facilities may be obligated or expended for food, beverages, 
receptions, parties, country club fees, plants or flowers pursuant to 
any cost-reimbursable contract.

                      Nuclear Waste Disposal Fund

    For the nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes 
of Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $304,800,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund. To 
the extent that balances in the fund are not sufficient to cover 
amounts available for obligation in the account, the Secretary shall 
exercise her authority pursuant to section 302(e)(5) of said Act to 
issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That of 
the amount herein appropriated, within available funds, not to exceed 
$6,000,000 may be provided to the State of Nevada, for the sole purpose 
of conduct of its scientific oversight responsibilities pursuant to the 
Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as amended: 
Provided further, That of the amount herein appropriated, not more than 
$8,500,000 may be provided to affected local governments, as defined in 
the Act, to conduct appropriate activities pursuant to the Act: 
Provided further, That within ninety days of the completion of each 
Federal fiscal year, each State or local entity shall provide 
certification to the Department of Energy, that all funds expended from 
such payments have been expended for activities as defined in Public 
Law 97-425, as amended. Failure to provide such certification shall 
cause such entity to be prohibited from any further funding provided 
for similar activities: Provided further, That none of the funds herein 
appropriated may be used directly or indirectly to influence 
legislative action on any matter pending before Congress or a State 
legislature or for any lobbying activity as provided in section 1913 of 
title 18, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds 
herein appropriated may be used for litigation expenses: Provided 
further, That none of the funds herein appropriated may be used to 
support multistate efforts or other coalition building activities 
inconsistent with the restrictions contained in this Act.

            Isotope Production and Distribution Program Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses for isotope production and 
distribution activities, $11,600,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                    Atomic Energy Defense Activities

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including the acquisition 
or condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; and the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 104, of which 103 are for 
replacement only, including 22 police-type vehicles), $3,164,369,000 to 
remain available until expended, of which $20,765,000 shall be 
available only for program activities at the University of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York; and $8,750,000 shall be available only for program 
activities at the Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, District of 
Columbia.

         Defense Environmental Restoration and Waste Management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental 
restoration and waste management activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, 
et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion; and the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles (not to exceed 87 of which 67 are for replacement only 
including 6 police-type vehicles), $5,128,211,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds previously made available under 
this head in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1992, 
to assist the State of New Mexico and affected local governments in 
mitigating the impacts of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant are available 
for any authorized purposes under this head.

              Materials Support and Other Defense Programs

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense materials 
support, and other defense activities in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $1,879,204,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $129,430,000, to remain 
available until expended, all of which shall be used in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the Nuclear Waste Fund appropriation of the 
Department of Energy contained in this title.

                      Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
Departmental Administration and other activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, 
et seq.), including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $35,000), 
$407,312,000, to remain available until expended, plus such additional 
amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost 
of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-
Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511, et seq.): Provided, That such increases 
in cost of work are offset by revenue increases of the same or greater 
amount, to remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
moneys received by the Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated 
to total $161,490,000 in fiscal year 1995 may be retained and used for 
operating expenses within this account, and may remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 3302 of title 31, United 
States Code: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall 
be reduced by the amount of miscellaneous revenues received during 
fiscal year 1995 so as to result in a final fiscal year 1995 
appropriation estimated at not more than $245,822,000.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $26,465,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Power Marketing Administrations

         Operation and Maintenance, Alaska Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of projects in 
Alaska and of marketing electric power and energy, $6,494,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for the 
purchase, operation and maintenance of two rotary-wing aircraft for 
replacement only, and for official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $3,000.
    During fiscal year 1995, no new direct loan obligations may be 
made.
    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $485,000.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy 
pursuant to the provisions of section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the southeastern power area, 
$22,431,000, to remain available until expended.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, and 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 connected therewith, in carrying out the provisions of 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southwestern power area, $21,316,000, to remain available until 
expended; in addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 
3302, not to exceed $3,935,000 in reimbursements, to remain available 
until expended.

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), 
and other related activities including conservation and renewable 
resources programs as authorized, including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, 
$224,085,000, to remain available until expended, of which $202,512,000 
shall be derived from the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: 
Provided, That of the amount herein appropriated, within available 
funds, $5,135,000 is for deposit into the Utah Reclamation Mitigation 
and Conservation Account pursuant to title IV of the Reclamation 
Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to transfer from the 
Colorado River Dam Fund to the Western Area Power Administration 
$7,472,000, to carry out the power marketing and transmission 
activities of the Boulder Canyon project as provided in section 
104(a)(4) of the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984, to remain available 
until expended.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles; official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $3,000); 
$166,173,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $166,173,000 
of revenues from fees and annual charges, and other services and 
collections in fiscal year 1995, shall be retained and used for 
necessary expenses in this account, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as revenues are received during fiscal year 1995, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1995 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $0.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended, 
notwithstanding section 405 of said Act, and for necessary expenses for 
the Federal Co-Chairman and the alternate on the Appalachian Regional 
Commission and for payment of the Federal share of the administrative 
expenses of the Commission, including services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, to remain available until expended, $187,000,000.

                DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $17,933,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    DELAWARE RIVER BASIN COMMISSION

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the United 
States member of the Delaware River Basin Commission, as authorized by 
law (75 Stat. 716), $343,000.

            Contribution to Delaware River Basin Commission

    For payment of the United States share of the current expenses of 
the Delaware River Basin Commission, as authorized by law (75 Stat. 
706, 707), $478,000.

            INTERSTATE COMMISSION ON THE POTOMAC RIVER BASIN

    Contribution to Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin

    To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay in advance to the 
Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin the Federal 
contribution toward the expenses of the Commission during the current 
fiscal year in the administration of its business in the conservancy 
district established pursuant to the Act of July 11, 1940 (54 Stat. 
748), as amended by the Act of September 25, 1970 (Public Law 91-407), 
$511,000.

                     NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

                         Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, including the employment of 
aliens; services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; publication and dissemination of atomic information; purchase, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms, official representation expenses (not 
to exceed $20,000); reimbursements to the General Services 
Administration for security guard services; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft, $540,501,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $22,000,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
Fund: Provided, That from this appropriation, transfer of sums may be 
made to other agencies of the Government for the performance of the 
work for which this appropriation is made, and in such cases the sums 
so transferred may be merged with the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided further, That moneys received by the Commission 
for the cooperative nuclear safety research program, services rendered 
to foreign governments and international organizations, and the 
material and information access authorization programs, including 
criminal history checks under section 149 of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended, may be retained and used for salaries and expenses 
associated with those activities, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That revenues from 
licensing fees, inspection services, and other services and collections 
estimated at $518,501,000 in fiscal year 1995 shall be retained and 
used for necessary salaries and expenses in this account, 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 3302 of title 31, United 
States Code, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the 
amount of revenues received during fiscal year 1995 from licensing 
fees, inspection services and other services and collections, excluding 
those moneys received for the cooperative nuclear safety research 
program, services rendered to foreign governments and international 
organizations, and the material and information access authorization 
programs, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1995 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $22,000,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, $5,080,000, to remain available until expended; and 
in addition, an amount not to exceed 5 percent of this sum may be 
transferred from Salaries and Expenses, Nuclear Regulatory Commission: 
Provided, That notice of such transfers shall be given to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided further, 
That from this appropriation, transfers of sums may be made to other 
agencies of the Government for the performance of the work for which 
this appropriation is made, and in such cases the sums so transferred 
may be merged with the appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and 
other services and collections shall be retained and used for necessary 
salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding the provisions 
of section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues received during 
fiscal year 1995 from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1995 
appropriation estimated at not more than $0.

                  NUCLEAR WASTE TECHNICAL REVIEW BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $2,664,000, to be 
transferred from the Nuclear Waste Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                 OFFICE OF THE NUCLEAR WASTE NEGOTIATOR

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the office of the Nuclear Waste 
Negotiator in carrying out activities authorized by the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act of 1982, as amended by Public Law 102-486, section 802, 
$1,000,000 to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund and to remain 
available until expended.

                   SUSQUEHANNA RIVER BASIN COMMISSION

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the United 
States member of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission as authorized 
by law (84 Stat. 1541), $318,000.

           Contribution to Susquehanna River Basin Commission

    For payment of the United States share of the current expenses of 
the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, as authorized by law (84 Stat. 
1530, 1531), $288,000.

                       TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY

                    Tennessee Valley Authority Fund

    For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority Act of 1933, as amended (16 U.S.C. ch. 12A), including 
purchase, hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, and purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $136,856,000, to remain available 
until expended.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 1995''.
HR 4506 RH----2
HR 4506 RH----3
HR 4506 RH----4