[House Report 106-371]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



106th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    106-371
_______________________________________________________________________

                                     



 
  MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR THE FISCAL 
        YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 2000, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                               __________

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                              to accompany

                               H.R. 2561




                October 8, 1999.--Ordered to be printed

                               __________

                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
59-980                     WASHINGTON : 1999


106th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    106-371

======================================================================



 
MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 
           ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 2000, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

                October 8, 1999.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______


 Mr. Lewis of California, from the committee of conference, submitted 
                             the following

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                        [To accompany H.R. 2561]

      The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses on the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
2561) ``making appropriations for the Department of Defense for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes'', having met, after full and free conference, have 
agreed to recommend and do recommend to their respective Houses 
as follows:
      That the House recede from its disagreement to the 
amendment of the Senate, and agree to the same with an 
amendment, as follows:
      In lieu of the matter stricken and inserted by said 
amendment, insert:

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, for military functions administered 
by the Department of Defense, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on active duty 
(except members of reserve components provided for elsewhere), 
cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 
note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), and to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, $22,006,361,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
permanent duty stations, for members of the Navy on active duty 
(except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere), 
midshipmen, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 
note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), and to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, $17,258,823,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps on 
active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public 
Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 229(b) 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $6,555,403,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, 
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station 
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational 
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between 
permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on active 
duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments 
pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 402 note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $17,861,803,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve 
on active duty under sections 10211, 10302, and 3038 of title 
10, United States Code, or while serving on active duty under 
section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in connection 
with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or 
while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and 
for members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and 
expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $2,289,996,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve 
on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, United States 
Code, or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of 
title 10, United States Code, in connection with performing 
duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing 
drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps, and expenses authorized by section 
16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $1,473,388,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps 
Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, United 
States Code, or while serving on active duty under section 
12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in connection with 
performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or 
while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of 
the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses authorized 
by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$412,650,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air Force 
Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 of 
title 10, United States Code, or while serving onactive duty 
under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in connection 
with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing 
drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and for members of the Air 
Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and expenses authorized by section 
16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $892,594,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army National 
Guard while on duty under section 10211, 10302, or 12402 of 
title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States Code, or 
while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 or 
section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in connection 
with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and 
expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $3,610,479,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, 
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air National 
Guard on duty under section 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 
or section 708 of title 32, United States Code, or while 
serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 or section 
502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in connection with 
performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and 
expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $1,533,196,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law; 
and not to exceed $10,624,000 can be used for emergencies and 
extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval or 
authority of the Secretary of the Army, and payments may be 
made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes, $19,256,152,000 and, in addition, $50,000,000 shall 
be derived by transfer from the National Defense Stockpile 
Transaction Fund: Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be transferred to ``National Park Service--
Construction'' within 30 days of enactment of this Act, only 
for necessary infrastructure repair improvements at Fort Baker, 
under the management of the Golden Gate Recreation Area: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, not less than $355,000,000 shall be made available 
only for conventional ammunition care and maintenance: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$4,000,000 shall not be available until thirty days after the 
Secretary of the Army provides to the congressional defense 
committees the results of an assessment, solicited by means of 
a competitive bid, on the prospects of recovering costs 
associated with the environmental restoration of the Department 
of the Army's government-owned, contractor-operated facilities: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $7,000,000 shall only be available to the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, only for 
demolition and removal of facilities, buildings, and structures 
used at MOTBY (a Military Traffic Management Command facility): 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 2215 of title 
10, United States Code, of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, $975,666 is authorized to be transferred to the 
Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in the 
United States, to remain available until March 31, 2001.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for 
the operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
as authorized by law; and not to exceed $5,155,000 can be used 
for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on 
the approval or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and 
payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes, $22,958,784,000 and, in 
addition, $50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by 
law, $2,808,354,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by 
law; and not to exceed $7,882,000 can be used for emergencies 
and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval or 
authority of the Secretary of the Air Force, and payments may 
be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential 
military purposes, $20,896,959,000 and, in addition, 
$50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National 
Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
available under this heading, $950,000 shall only be available 
to the Secretary of the Air Force for a grant to Florida 
Memorial College for the purpose of funding minority aviation 
training.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the 
Department of Defense (other than the military departments), as 
authorized by law, $11,489,483,000, of which not to exceed 
$25,000,000 may be available for the CINC initiative fund 
account; and of which not to exceed $32,300,000 can be used for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the 
approval or authority of the Secretary of Defense, and payments 
may be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential 
military purposes: Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' 
in division B, title I, of Public Law 105-277, the amount of 
$202,000,000 not covered as of July 12, 1999, by an official 
budget request under the fifth proviso of that section is 
available, subject to such an official budget request for that 
entire amount, only for the following accounts in the specified 
amounts:
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', $102,000,000; and
            ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', $100,000,000:
Provided further, That none of the amount of $202,000,000 
described in the preceding proviso may be made available for 
obligation unless the entire amount is released to the 
Department of Defense and made available for obligation for the 
accounts, and in the amounts, specified in the preceding 
proviso: Provided further, That of the amounts provided under 
this heading, $20,000,000 to remain available until expended, 
is available only for expenses relating to certain classified 
activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the 
Secretary of Defense to operation and maintenance, procurement, 
and research, development, test and evaluation appropriations 
accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under 
this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be available 
only for retrofitting security containers that are under the 
control of, or that are accessible by, defense contractors.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
and administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities 
and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
$1,469,176,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
and administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities 
and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of 
services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, 
$958,978,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
and administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of 
facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications, $138,911,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, 
and administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of 
facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; 
procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications, $1,782,591,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the 
Army National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment 
and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, 
operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; personnel services in the National 
Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other than mileage), as 
authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, for Army 
National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National 
Guard Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard 
as authorized by law; and expenses of repair, modification, 
maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment (including 
aircraft), $3,161,378,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For operation and maintenance of the Air National Guard, 
including medical and hospital treatment and related expenses 
in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, repair, and 
other necessary expenses of facilities for the training and 
administration of the Air National Guard, including repair of 
facilities, maintenance, operation, and modification of 
aircraft; transportation of things, hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; supplies, materials, and equipment, as authorized by 
law for the Air National Guard; and expenses incident to the 
maintenance and use of supplies, materials, and equipment, 
including such as may be furnished from stocks under the 
control of agencies of the Department of Defense; travel 
expenses(other than mileage) on the same basis as authorized by 
law for Air National Guard personnel on active Federal duty, for Air 
National Guard commanders while inspecting units in compliance with 
National Guard Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the 
Chief, National Guard Bureau, $3,241,138,000.

             Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses directly relating to Overseas Contingency 
Operations by United States military forces, $1,722,600,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
maintenance accounts within this title, the Defense Health 
Program appropriation, and to working capital funds: Provided 
further, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and 
shall be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the 
funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for 
the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred 
back to this appropriation: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this paragraph is in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States 
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, $7,621,000, of which not 
to exceed $2,500 can be used for official representation 
purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For the Department of the Army, $378,170,000, to remain 
available until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of 
the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, transfer the 
funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For the Department of the Navy, $284,000,000, to remain 
available until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of 
the Navy shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer the 
funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Navy, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For the Department of the Air Force, $376,800,000, to 
remain available until transferred: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall, upon determining that such 
funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and 
recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and 
debris of the Department of the Air Force, or for similar 
purposes, transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the 
Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as 
the appropriations to which transferred: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred 
from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For the Department of Defense, $25,370,000, to remain 
available until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, transfer the 
funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of Defense, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation 
are notnecessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts 
may be transferred back to this appropriation.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites


                     (including transfer of funds)


      For the Department of the Army, $239,214,000, to remain 
available until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of 
the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required 
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at 
sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, transfer the 
funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, 
Disaster, and Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense 
(consisting of the programs provided under sections 401, 402, 
404, 2547, and 2551 of title 10, United States Code), 
$55,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                  Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction

      For assistance to the republics of the former Soviet 
Union, including assistance provided by contract or by grants, 
for facilitating the elimination and the safe and secure 
transportation and storage of nuclear, chemical and other 
weapons; for establishing programs to prevent the proliferation 
of weapons, weapons components, and weapon-related technology 
and expertise; for programs relating to the training and 
support of defense and military personnel for demilitarization 
and protection of weapons, weapons components and weapons 
technology and expertise, $460,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be available 
only to support the dismantling and disposal of nuclear 
submarines and submarine reactor components in the Russian Far 
East.

                 Quality of Life Enhancements, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, resulting from 
unfunded shortfalls in the repair and maintenance of real 
property of the Department of Defense (including military 
housing and barracks), $300,000,000, for the maintenance of 
real property of the Department of Defense (including minor 
construction and major maintenance and repair), which shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2001, as 
follows:
            Army, $77,000,000;
            Navy, $77,000,000;
            Marine Corps, $58,500,000;
            Air Force, $77,000,000; and
            Defense-Wide, $10,500,000:
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the funds appropriated under this heading for Defense-Wide 
activities, the entire amount shall only be available for 
grants by the Secretary of Defense to local educational 
authorities which maintain primary and secondary educational 
facilities located within Department of Defense installations, 
and which are used primarily by Department of Defense military 
and civilian dependents, for facility repairs and improvements 
to such educational facilities: Provided further, That such 
grants to local educational authorities may be made for repairs 
and improvements to such educational facilities as required to 
meet classroom size requirements: Provided further, That the 
cumulative amount of any grant or grants to any single local 
educational authority provided pursuant to the provisions under 
this heading shall not exceed $1,500,000.

                   Pentagon Renovation Transfer Fund

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, resulting from 
the Department of Defense renovation of the Pentagon 
Reservation, $222,800,000, for the renovation of the Pentagon 
Reservation, which shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2001.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories 
therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion 
of public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in 
public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
necessary for the foregoing purposes, $1,451,688,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
and modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, 
ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories 
therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion 
of public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in 
public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses 
necessary for the foregoing purposes, $1,322,305,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
of weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including 
ordnance, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private 
plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the 
foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may 
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private 
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
foregoing purposes, $1,586,490,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment 
and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854 of 
title 10, United States Code, and the land necessary therefor, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests 
therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private 
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
foregoing purposes, $1,204,120,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
of vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked 
combat vehicles; the purchase of not to exceed 36 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; and the purchase of 3 
vehicles required for physical security of personnel, 
notwithstanding price limitations applicable to passenger 
vehicles but not to exceed $200,000 per vehicle; communications 
and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare parts, 
ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, 
appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $3,738,934,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2002.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; 
expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may 
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private 
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway, $8,662,655,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, 
and modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and 
related support equipment including spare parts, and 
accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in 
public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $1,383,413,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment 
and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854 of 
title 10, United States Code, and the land necessary therefor, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests 
therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private 
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
foregoing purposes, $525,200,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, 
or conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor 
and armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools and installation thereof in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; procurement of critical, long leadtime components and 
designs for vessels to be constructed or converted in the 
future; and expansion of public and private plants, including 
land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title, as follows:
            NSSN (AP), $748,497,000;
            CVN-77 (AP), $751,540,000;
            CVN Refuelings (AP), $345,565,000;
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $2,681,653,000;
            LPD-17 amphibious transport dock ship, 
        $1,508,338,000;
            LHD-8 (AP), $375,000,000;
            ADC(X), $439,966,000;
            LCAC landing craft air cushion program, 
        $31,776,000; and
            For craft, outfitting, post delivery, conversions, 
        and first destination transportation, $171,119,000;
    In all: $7,053,454,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2004: Provided, That additional obligations 
may be incurred after September 30, 2004, for engineering 
services, tests, evaluations, and other such budgeted work that 
must be performed in the final stage of ship construction: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
heading for the construction or conversion of any naval vessel 
to be constructed in shipyards in the United States shall be 
expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major 
components of such vessel: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading shall be used for the 
construction of any naval vessel in foreign shipyards: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Navy is hereby granted the 
authority to enter into a contract for an LHD-1 Amphibious 
Assault Ship which shall be funded on an incremental basis.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support 
equipment and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy 
ordnance (except ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and 
ships authorized for conversion); the purchase of not to exceed 
50 passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of 
public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, 
appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway, $4,320,238,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2002.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, 
and modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment, 
appliances, and machine tools, and installation thereof in 
public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the Marine 
Corps, including the purchase of not to exceed 43 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public 
and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, $1,300,920,000, 
to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, lease, and modification of 
aircraft and equipment, including armor and armament, 
specialized ground handling equipment, and training devices, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned 
equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of 
structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the 
foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of 
things, $8,228,630,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2002.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of 
missiles, spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including 
spare parts and accessories therefor, ground handling 
equipment, and training devices; expansion of public and 
private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition 
of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents 
and transportation of things, $2,211,407,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification 
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment 
and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854 of 
title 10, United States Code, and the land necessary therefor, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests 
therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private 
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessaryfor the 
foregoing purposes, $442,537,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2002.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including 
ground guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground 
electronic and communication equipment), and supplies, 
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided 
for; the purchase of not to exceed 53 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned 
equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of 
structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, prior to 
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway, $7,146,157,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2002.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments) necessary for 
procurement, production, and modification of equipment, 
supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise 
provided for; the purchase of not to exceed 103 passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; the purchase of 7 vehicles 
required for physical security of personnel, notwithstanding 
price limitations applicable to passenger vehicles but not to 
exceed $250,000 per vehicle; expansion of public and private 
plants, equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land for the 
foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may 
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway, $2,249,566,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the 
funds available under this heading, not less than $39,491,000, 
including $6,000,000 derived by transfer from ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', shall be 
available only to support Electronic Commerce Resource Centers.

                  National Guard and Reserve Equipment

    For procurement of aircraft, missiles, tracked combat 
vehicles, ammunition, other weapons, and other procurement for 
the reserve components of the Armed Forces, $150,000,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That the Chiefs of the Reserve and National Guard 
components shall, not later than 30 days after the enactment of 
this Act, individually submitto the congressional defense 
committees the modernization priority assessment for their respective 
Reserve or National Guard component.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to 
sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act 
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2078, 2091, 2092, and 2093), $3,000,000 
only for microwave power tubes and to remain available until 
expended.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
research, development, test and evaluation, including 
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities 
and equipment, $5,266,601,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2001.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
research, development, test and evaluation, including 
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities 
and equipment, $9,110,326,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2001: Provided, That funds 
appropriated in this paragraph which are available for the V-22 
may be used to meet unique requirements of the Special 
Operation Forces: Provided further, That of the funds available 
under this heading, no more than $7,000,000 shall be available 
only to initiate a cost improvement program for the Intercooled 
Recuperated Gas Turbine Engine program: Provided further, That 
the funds identified in the immediately preceding proviso shall 
be made available only if the Secretary of the Navy certifies 
to the congressional defense committees that binding 
commitments to finance the remaining cost of the ICR cost 
improvement program have been secured from non-federal sources: 
Provided further, That should the Secretary of the Navy fail to 
make the certification required in the immediately preceding 
proviso by July 31, 2000, the Secretary shall make the funds 
subject to such certification available for DD-21 ship 
propulsion risk reduction: Provided further, That the 
Department of Defense shall not pay more than one-third of the 
cost of the Intercooled Recuperated Gas Turbine Engine cost 
improvement program.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific 
research, development, test and evaluation, including 
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities 
and equipment, $13,674,537,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2001.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), necessary for 
basic and applied scientific research, development, test and 
evaluation; advanced research projects as may be designated and 
determined by the Secretary of Defense, pursuant to law; 
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities 
and equipment, $9,256,705,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated in section 102 of division B, title I, of 
Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-558), the amount of 
$230,000,000 not covered as of July 12, 1999, by an official 
budget request under the third proviso of that section is 
available, subject to such an official budget request for that 
entire amount, only for the following programs in the specified 
amounts:
            ``Theater High-Altitude Area Defense System--TMD-
        EMD'', $38,000,000;
            ``PATRIOT PAC-3 Theater Missile Defense 
        Acquisition--EMD'', $75,000,000; and
            ``National Missile Defense Dem/Val'', $117,000,000:
Provided further, That none of the amount of $230,000,000 
described in the preceding proviso may be made available for 
obligation unless the entire amount is released to the 
Department of Defense and made available for obligation for the 
programs, and in the amounts, specified in the preceding 
proviso.

               Developmental Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, of independent 
activities of the Director, Test and Evaluation in the 
direction and supervision of developmental test and evaluation, 
including performance and joint developmental testing and 
evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
therewith, $265,957,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2001.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and 
Evaluation in the direction and supervision of operational test 
and evaluation, including initial operational test and 
evaluation which is conducted prior to, and in support of, 
production decisions; joint operational testing and evaluation; 
and administrative expenses in connection therewith, 
$31,434,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2001.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $90,344,000: 
Provided, That during fiscal year 2000, funds in the Defense 
Working Capital Funds may be used for the purchase of not to 
exceed 295 passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for 
the Defense Security Service.

                     National Defense Sealift Fund

    For National Defense Sealift Fund programs, projects, and 
activities, and for expenses of the National Defense Reserve 
Fleet, as established by section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
Act of 1946 (50 U.S.C. App. 1744), $717,200,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
provided in this paragraph shall be used to award a new 
contract that provides for the acquisition of any of the 
following major components unless such components are 
manufactured in the United States: auxiliary equipment, 
including pumps, for all shipboard services; propulsion system 
components (that is; engines, reduction gears, and propellers); 
shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard cranes: Provided 
further, That the exercise of an option in a contract awarded 
through the obligation of previously appropriated funds shall 
not be considered to be the award of a new contract: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the military department 
responsible for such procurement may waive the restrictions in 
the first proviso on a case-by-case basis by certifying in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies 
are not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on 
a timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in 
order to acquire capability for national security purposes.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

      For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and 
health care programs of the Department of Defense, as 
authorized by law, $11,154,617,000, of which $10,522,647,000 
shall be for Operation and maintenance, of which not to exceed 
2 per centum shall remain available until September 30, 2001; 
of which $356,970,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30,2002, shall be for Procurement; and of which 
$275,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2001, shall be for Research, development, test and evaluation.

            Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Army

      For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for 
the destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal 
chemical agents and munitions in accordance with the provisions 
of section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for the destruction of other 
chemical warfare materials that are not in the chemical weapon 
stockpile, $1,029,000,000, of which $543,500,000 shall be for 
Operation and maintenance to remain available until September 
30, 2001, $191,500,000 shall be for Procurement to remain 
available until September 30, 2002, and $294,000,000 shall be 
for Research, development, test and evaluation to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the funds 
available under this heading, $1,000,000 shall be available 
until expended each year only for a Johnston Atoll off-island 
leave program: Provided further, That the Secretaries concerned 
shall, pursuant to uniform regulations, prescribe travel and 
transportation allowances for travel by participants in the 
off-island leave program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the 
Department of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available 
to the Department of Defense for military personnel of the 
reserve components serving under the provisions of title 10 and 
title 32, United States Code; for Operation and maintenance; 
for Procurement; and for Research, development, test and 
evaluation, $847,800,000: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $10,800,000 is hereby 
transferred to appropriations available for ``Military 
Construction, Air Force'' for fiscal year 2000, and the 
transferred funds shall be available for study, planning, 
design, architect and engineer services at forward operating 
locations in the area of responsibility of the United States 
Southern Command: Provided further, That the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available for obligation for the 
same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation 
to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, $137,544,000, of which $136,244,000 
shall be for Operation and maintenance, of which not to exceed 
$700,000 is available for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses to be expended on the approval or authority of the 
Inspector General, and payments may be made on the Inspector 
General's certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes; and of which $1,300,000 to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, shall be for Procurement.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
and Disability System Fund, to maintain proper funding level 
for continuing the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement and Disability System, $209,100,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account


                     (including transfer of funds)


    For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community 
Management Account, $158,015,000, of which $34,923,000 for the 
Advanced Research and Development Committee shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $27,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Justice for the National Drug 
Intelligence Center to support the Department of Defense's 
counter-drug intelligence responsibilities, and of the said 
amount, $1,500,000 for Procurement shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002, and $1,000,000 for Research, development, 
test and evaluation shall remain available until September 30, 
2001.

Payment to Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and Environmental 
                            Restoration Fund

      For payment to Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, 
and Environmental Restoration Fund, as authorized by law, 
$35,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 National Security Education Trust Fund

    For the purposes of title VIII of Public Law 102-183, 
$8,000,000, to be derived from the National Security Education 
Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 8002. During the current fiscal year, provisions of 
law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment 
of, any person not a citizen of the United States shall not 
apply to personnel of the Department of Defense: Provided, That 
salary increases granted to direct and indirect hire foreign 
national employees of the Department of Defense funded by this 
Act shall not be at a rate in excess of the percentage increase 
authorized by law for civilian employees of the Department of 
Defense whose pay is computed under the provisions of section 
5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate in excess of 
the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host nation 
to its own employees, whichever is higher: Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to Department of Defense 
foreign service national employees serving at United States 
diplomatic missions whose pay is set by the Department of State 
under the Foreign Service Act of 1980: Provided further, That 
the limitations of this provision shall not apply to foreign 
national employees of the Department of Defense in the Republic 
of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year, unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004. No more than 20 per centum of the appropriations 
in this Act which are limited for obligation during the current 
fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the 
fiscal year: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
obligations for support of active duty training of reserve 
components or summer camp training of the Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps.


                          (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8005. Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
that such action is necessary in the national interest, he may, 
with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget, 
transfer not to exceed $1,600,000,000 of working capital funds 
of the Department of Defense or funds made available in this 
Act to the Department of Defense for military functions (except 
military construction) between such appropriations or funds or 
any subdivision thereof, to be merged with and to be available 
for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, That such 
authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where 
the item for which funds are requested has been denied by 
Congress: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to 
this authority or any other authority in this Act: Provided 
further, That no part of the funds in this Act shall be 
available to prepare or present a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where 
the item for which reprogramming is requested has been denied 
by the Congress.


                          (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8006. During the current fiscal year, cash balances in 
working capital funds of the Department of Defense established 
pursuant to section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may 
be maintained in only such amounts as are necessary at any time 
for cash disbursements to be made from such funds: Provided, 
That transfers may be made between such funds: Provided 
further, That transfers may be made between working capital 
funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'' 
appropriation and the ``Operation and Maintenance'' 
appropriation accounts in such amounts as may be determined by 
the Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget, except that such transfers may not be 
made unless the Secretary of Defensehas notified the Congress 
of the proposed transfer. Except in amounts equal to the amounts 
appropriated to working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may 
be made against a working capital fund to procure or increase the value 
of war reserve material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has 
notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8007. Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used 
to initiate a special access program without prior notification 
30 calendar days in session in advance to the congressional 
defense committees.
    Sec. 8008. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs 
economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in 
any 1 year of the contract or that includes an unfunded 
contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a 
contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear 
contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in 
excess of $20,000,000 in any 1 year, unless the congressional 
defense committees have been notified at least 30 days in 
advance of the proposed contract award: Provided, That no part 
of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be available 
to initiate a multiyear contract for which the economic order 
quantity advance procurement is not funded at least to the 
limits of the Government's liability: Provided further, That no 
part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be 
available to initiate multiyear procurement contracts for any 
systems or component thereof if the value of the multiyear 
contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically provided 
in this Act: Provided further, That no multiyear procurement 
contract can be terminated without 10-day prior notification to 
the congressional defense committees: Provided further, That 
the execution of multiyear authority shall require the use of a 
present value analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an 
annual procurement.
    Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used for 
multiyear procurement contracts as follows:
            Longbow Apache Helicopter; Javelin missile; Abrams 
        M1A2 Upgrade; F/A-18E/F aircraft; C-17 aircraft; and F-
        16 aircraft.
    Sec. 8009. Within the funds appropriated for the operation 
and maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby 
appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 10, United States 
Code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs under chapter 
20 of title 10, United States Code. Such funds may also be 
obligated for humanitarian and civic assistance costs 
incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to authority 
granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code, and these obligations shall be reported to Congress on 
September 30 of each year: Provided, That funds available for 
operation and maintenance shall be available for providing 
humanitarian and similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams 
in the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely 
associated states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of 
Free Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239: Provided 
further, That upon a determination by the Secretary of the Army 
that such action is beneficial for graduate medical education 
programs conducted at Army medical facilities located in 
Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may authorize the provision 
of medical services at such facilities and transportation to 
such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for civilian 
patients from American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8010. (a) During fiscal year 2000, the civilian 
personnel of the Department of Defense may not be managed on 
the basis of any end-strength, and the management of such 
personnel during that fiscal year shall not be subject to any 
constraint or limitation (known as an end-strength) on the 
number of such personnel who may be employed on the last day of 
such fiscal year.
    (b) The fiscal year 2001 budget request for the Department 
of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
documentation supporting the fiscal year 2001 Department of 
Defense budget request shall be prepared and submitted to the 
Congress as if subsections (a) and (b) of this provision were 
effective with regard to fiscal year 2001.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to 
military (civilian) technicians.
    Sec. 8011. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds made available by this Act shall be used by the 
Department of Defense to exceed, outside the 50 United States, 
its territories, and the District of Columbia, 125,000 civilian 
workyears: Provided, That workyears shall be applied as defined 
in the Federal Personnel Manual: Provided further, That 
workyears expended in dependent student hiring programs for 
disadvantaged youths shall not be included in this workyear 
limitation.
    Sec. 8012. None of the funds made available by this Act 
shall be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
congressional action on any legislation or appropriation 
matters pending before the Congress.
    Sec. 8013. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be used to make contributions to the Department of 
Defense Education Benefits Fund pursuant to section 2006(g) of 
title 10, United States Code, representing the normal cost for 
future benefits under section 3015(d) of title 38, United 
States Code, for any member of the armed services who, on or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, enlists in the 
armed services for a period of active duty of less than three 
years, nor shall any amounts representing the normal cost of 
such future benefits be transferred from the Fund by the 
Secretary of the Treasury to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
pursuant to section 2006(d) of title 10, United States Code; 
nor shall the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pay such benefits 
to any such member: Provided, That these limitations shall not 
apply to members in combat arms skills or to members who enlist 
in the armed services on or after July 1, 1989, under a program 
continued or established by the Secretary of Defense in fiscal 
year 1991 to test the cost-effective use of special recruiting 
incentives involving not more than nineteen noncombat arms 
skills approved in advance by the Secretary of Defense: 
Provided further, That this subsection applies only to active 
components of the Army.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the 
Army participating as a full-time student andreceiving benefits 
paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of 
Defense Education Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student 
is credited toward completion of a service commitment: Provided, That 
this subsection shall not apply to those members who have reenlisted 
with this option prior to October 1, 1987: Provided further, That this 
subsection applies only to active components of the Army.
    Sec. 8014. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be available to convert to contractor performance an activity 
or function of the Department of Defense that, on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, is performed by more than 
ten Department of Defense civilian employees until a most 
efficient and cost-effective organization analysis is completed 
on such activity or function and certification of the analysis 
is made to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That this section and 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) of 10 U.S.C. 2461 shall not apply 
to a commercial or industrial type function of the Department 
of Defense that: (1) is included on the procurement list 
established pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 25, 1938 
(41 U.S.C. 47), popularly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-
O'Day Act; (2) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified 
nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals in 
accordance with that Act; or (3) is planned to be converted to 
performance by a qualified firm under 51 per centum Native 
American ownership.


                          (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8015. Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for 
the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be 
transferred to any other appropriation contained in this Act 
solely for the purpose of implementing a Mentor-Protege Program 
developmental assistance agreement pursuant to section 831 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 
(Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2301 note), as amended, under 
the authority of this provision or any other transfer authority 
contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8016. None of the funds in this Act may be available 
for the purchase by the Department of Defense (and its 
departments and agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and 
mooring chain 4 inches in diameter and under unless the anchor 
and mooring chain are manufactured in the United States from 
components which are substantially manufactured in the United 
States: Provided, That for the purpose of this section 
manufactured will include cutting, heat treating, quality 
control, testing of chain and welding (including the forging 
and shot blasting process): Provided further, That for the 
purpose of this section substantially all of the components of 
anchor and mooring chain shall be considered to be produced or 
manufactured in the United States if the aggregate cost of the 
components produced or manufactured in the United States 
exceeds the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
manufactured outside the United States: Provided further, That 
when adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis, the 
Secretary of the service responsible for the procurement may 
waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations that such an 
acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for 
national security purposes.
    Sec. 8017. None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
available for the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the 
Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) shall be available for the 
reimbursement of any health care provider for inpatient mental 
health service for care received when a patient is referred to 
a provider of inpatient mental health care or residential 
treatment care by a medical or health care professional having 
an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is 
referred: Provided, That this limitation does not apply in the 
case of inpatient mental health services provided under the 
program for the handicapped under subsection (d) of section 
1079 of title 10, United States Code, provided as partial 
hospital care, or provided pursuant to a waiver authorized by the 
Secretary of Defense because of medical or psychological circumstances 
of the patient that are confirmed by a health professional who is not a 
Federal employee after a review, pursuant to rules prescribed by the 
Secretary, which takes into account the appropriate level of care for 
the patient, the intensity of services required by the patient, and the 
availability of that care.
    Sec. 8018. Funds available in this Act may be used to 
provide transportation for the next-of-kin of individuals who 
have been prisoners of war or missing in action from the 
Vietnam era to an annual meeting in the United States, under 
such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
    Sec. 8019. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
during the current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may, 
by executive agreement, establish with host nation governments 
in NATO member states a separate account into which such 
residual value amounts negotiated in the return of United 
States military installations in NATO member states may be 
deposited, in the currency of the host nation, in lieu of 
direct monetary transfers to the United States Treasury: 
Provided, That such credits may be utilized only for the 
construction of facilities to support United States military 
forces in that host nation, or such real property maintenance 
and base operating costs that are currently executed through 
monetary transfers to such host nations: Provided further, That 
the Department of Defense's budget submission for fiscal year 
2001 shall identify such sums anticipated in residual value 
settlements, and identify such construction, real property 
maintenance or base operating costs that shall be funded by the 
host nation through such credits: Provided further, That all 
military construction projects to be executed from such 
accounts must be previously approved in a prior Act of 
Congress: Provided further, That each such executive agreement 
with a NATO member host nation shall be reported to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 30 days prior to 
the conclusion and endorsement of any such agreement 
established under this provision.
    Sec. 8020. None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1 Carbines, 
M-1 Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber 
rifles, or M-1911 pistols.
    Sec. 8021. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds appropriated by this Act shall beavailable to pay 
more than 50 per centum of an amount paid to any person under section 
308 of title 37, United States Code, in a lump sum.
    Sec. 8022. No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated 
or made available in this Act shall be used during a single 
fiscal year for any single relocation of an organization, unit, 
activity or function of the Department of Defense into or 
within the National Capital Region: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional 
defense committees that such a relocation is required in the 
best interest of the Government.
    Sec. 8023. A member of a reserve component whose unit or 
whose residence is located in a State which is not contiguous 
with another State is authorized to travel in a space required 
status on aircraft of the Armed Forces between home and place 
of inactive duty training, or place of duty in lieu of unit 
training assembly, when there is no road or railroad 
transportation (or combination of road and railroad 
transportation between those locations): Provided, That a 
member traveling in that status on a military aircraft pursuant 
to the authority provided in this section is not authorized to 
receive travel, transportation, or per diem allowances in 
connection with that travel.
    Sec. 8024. In addition to the funds provided elsewhere in 
this Act, $8,000,000 is appropriated only for incentive 
payments authorized by section 504 of the Indian Financing Act 
of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544): Provided, That contractors 
participating in the test program established by section 854 of 
Public Law 101-189 (15 U.S.C. 637 note) shall be eligible for 
the program established by section 504 of the Indian Financing 
Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544).
    Sec. 8025. During the current fiscal year, funds 
appropriated or otherwise available for any Federal agency, the 
Congress, the judicial branch, or the District of Columbia may 
be used for the pay, allowances, and benefits of an employee as 
defined by section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, or an 
individual employed by the government of the District of 
Columbia, permanent or temporary indefinite, who--
            (1) is a member of a Reserve component of the Armed 
        Forces, as described in section 10101 of title 10, 
        United States Code, or the National Guard, as described 
        in section 101 of title 32, United States Code;
            (2) performs, for the purpose of providing military 
        aid to enforce the law or providing assistance to civil 
        authorities in the protection or saving of life or 
        property or prevention of injury--
                     (A) Federal service under sections 331, 
                332, 333, or 12406 of title 10, or other 
                provision of law, as applicable; or
                     (B) full-time military service for his or 
                her State, the District of Columbia, the 
                Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of 
                the United States; and
            (3) requests and is granted--
                     (A) leave under the authority of this 
                section; or
                     (B) annual leave, which may be granted 
                without regard to the provisions of sections 
                5519 and 6323(b) of title 5, if such employee 
                is otherwise entitled to such annual leave:
Provided, That any employee who requests leave under subsection 
(3)(A) for service described in subsection (2) of this section 
is entitled to such leave, subject to the provisions of this 
section and of the last sentence of section 6323(b) of title 5, 
and such leave shall be considered leave under section 6323(b) 
of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 8026. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be available to perform any cost study pursuant to the 
provisions of OMB Circular A-76 if the study being performed 
exceeds a period of 24 months after initiation of such study with 
respect to a single function activity or 48 months after initiation of 
such study for a multi-function activity.
    Sec. 8027. Funds appropriated by this Act for the American 
Forces Information Service shall not be used for any national 
or international political or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8028. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
regulation, the Secretary of Defense may adjust wage rates for 
civilian employees hired for certain health care occupations as 
authorized for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by section 
7455 of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 8029. None of the funds appropriated or made available 
in this Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the 
operation of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the 
Air Force Reserve, if such action would reduce the WC-130 
Weather Reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in this 
Act.
    Sec. 8030. (a) Of the funds for the procurement of supplies 
or services appropriated by this Act, qualified nonprofit 
agencies for the blind or other severely handicapped shall be 
afforded the maximum practicable opportunity to participate as 
subcontractors and suppliers in the performance of contracts 
let by the Department of Defense.
    (b) During the current fiscal year, a business concern 
which has negotiated with a military service or defense agency 
a subcontracting plan for the participation by small business 
concerns pursuant to section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 637(d)) shall be given credit toward meeting that 
subcontracting goal for any purchases made from qualified 
nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely handicapped.
    (c) For the purpose of this section, the phrase ``qualified 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped'' 
means a nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely 
handicapped that has been approved by the Committee for the 
Purchase from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped under 
the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46-48).
    Sec. 8031. During the current fiscal year, net receipts 
pursuant to collections from third party payers pursuant to 
section 1095 of title 10, United States Code, shall be made 
available to the local facility of the uniformed services 
responsible for the collections and shall be over and above the 
facility's direct budget amount.
    Sec. 8032. During the current fiscal year, the Department 
of Defense is authorized to incur obligations ofnot to exceed 
$350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only 
from the Government of Kuwait, under that section: Provided, That upon 
receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriations or fund which incurred such obligations.
    Sec. 8033. Of the funds made available in this Act, not 
less than $26,588,000 shall be available for the Civil Air 
Patrol Corporation, of which $22,888,000 shall be available for 
Civil Air Patrol Corporation operation and maintenance to 
support readiness activities which includes $1,418,000 for the 
Civil Air Patrol counterdrug program: Provided, That funds 
identified for ``Civil Air Patrol'' under this section are 
intended for and shall be for the exclusive use of the Civil 
Air Patrol Corporation and not for the Air Force or any unit 
thereof.
    Sec. 8034. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
are available to establish a new Department of Defense 
(department) federally funded research and development center 
(FFRDC), either as a new entity, or as a separate entity 
administrated by an organization managing another FFRDC, or as 
a nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a consortium 
of other FFRDCs and other non-profit entities.
    (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, 
Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or 
any similar entity of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant 
to any defense FFRDC, except when acting in a technical 
advisory capacity, may be compensated for his or her services 
as a member of such entity, or as a paid consultant by more 
than one FFRDC in a fiscal year: Provided, That a member of any 
such entity referred to previously in this subsection shall be 
allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized under the 
Federal Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in the 
performance of membership duties.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds available to the department from any source during fiscal 
year 2000 may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a fee or 
other payment mechanism, for construction of new buildings, for 
payment of cost sharing for projects funded by government 
grants, for absorption of contract overruns, or for certain 
charitable contributions, not to include employee participation 
in community service and/or development.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
funds available to the department during fiscal year 2000, not 
more than 6,206 staff years of technical effort (staff years) 
may be funded for defense FFRDCs: Provided, That of the 
specific amount referred to previously in this subsection, not 
more than 1,105 staff years may be funded for the defense 
studies and analysis FFRDCs.
    (e) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of 
the department's fiscal year 2001 budget request, submit a 
report presenting the specific amounts of staff years of 
technical effort to be allocated for each defense FFRDC during 
that fiscal year.
    Sec. 8035. None of the funds appropriated or made available 
in this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy or armor 
steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility or 
property under the control of the Department of Defense which 
were not melted and rolled in the United States or Canada: 
Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall apply to 
any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society of 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and Steel 
Institute (AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel 
plate: Provided further, That the Secretary of the military 
department responsible for the procurement may waive this 
restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies 
are not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a 
timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes: Provided further, 
That these restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being 
as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8036. For the purposes of this Act, the term 
``congressional defense committees'' means the Armed Services 
Committee of the House of Representatives, the Armed Services 
Committee of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee 
on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 8037. During the current fiscal year, the Department 
of Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance and 
repair of aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the 
production of components and other Defense-related articles, 
through competition between Department of Defense depot 
maintenance activities and private firms: Provided, That the 
Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or 
defense agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall 
certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of 
all direct and indirect costs for both public and private bids: 
Provided further, That Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under this 
section.
    Sec. 8038. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after 
consultation with the United States Trade Representative, 
determines that a foreign country which is party to an 
agreement described in paragraph (2) has violated the terms of 
the agreement by discriminating against certain types of 
products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the 
Secretary's blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect 
to such types of products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any 
reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding, 
between the United States and a foreign country pursuant to 
which the Secretary of Defense has prospectively waived the Buy 
American Act for certain products in that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
report on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from 
foreign entities in fiscal year 2000. Such report shall 
separately indicate the dollar value of items for which the Buy 
American Act was waived pursuant toany agreement described in 
subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et 
seq.), or any international agreement to which the United States is a 
party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American 
Act'' means title III of the Act entitled ``An Act making 
appropriations for the Treasury and Post Office Departments for 
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, and for other purposes'', 
approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    Sec. 8039. Appropriations contained in this Act that remain 
available at the end of the current fiscal year as a result of 
energy cost savings realized by the Department of Defense shall 
remain available for obligation for the next fiscal year to the 
extent, and for the purposes, provided in section 2865 of title 
10, United States Code.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8040. Amounts deposited during the current fiscal year 
to the special account established under 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) 
and to the special account established under 10 U.S.C. 
2667(d)(1) are appropriated and shall be available until 
transferred by the Secretary of Defense to current applicable 
appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense under the 
terms and conditions specified by 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2)(A) and 
(B) and 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1)(B), to be merged with and to be 
available for the same time period and the same purposes as the 
appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 8041. During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
available to the Department of Defense may be used to reimburse 
a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces who is not 
otherwise entitled to travel and transportation allowances and 
who occupies transient government housing while performing 
active duty for training or inactive duty training: Provided, 
That such members may be provided lodging in kind if transient 
government quarters are unavailable as if the member was 
entitled to such allowances under subsection (a) of section 404 
of title 37, United States Code: Provided further, That if 
lodging in kind is provided, any authorized service charge or 
cost of such lodging may be paid directly from funds 
appropriated for operation and maintenance of the reserve 
component of the member concerned.
    Sec. 8042. The President shall include with each budget for 
a fiscal year submitted to the Congress under section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, materials that shall identify 
clearly and separately the amounts requested in the budget for 
appropriation for that fiscal year for salaries and expenses 
related to administrative activities of the Department of 
Defense, the military departments, and the Defense agencies.
    Sec. 8043. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds available for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'' may be obligated for the Young Marines 
program.
    Sec. 8044. During the current fiscal year, amounts 
contained in the Department of Defense Overseas Military 
Facility Investment Recovery Account established by section 
2921(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1991 
(Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) shall be available 
until expended for the payments specified by section 2921(c)(2) 
of that Act: Provided, That none of the funds made available 
for expenditure under this section may be transferred or 
obligated until thirty days after the Secretary of Defense 
submits a report which details the balance available in the 
Overseas Military Facility Investment Recovery Account, all 
projected income into the account during fiscal years 2000 and 
2001, and the specific expenditures to be made using funds 
transferred from this account during fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 8045. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, not more than $119,200,000 shall be 
available for payment of the operating costs of NATO 
Headquarters: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive 
this section for Department of Defense support provided to NATO 
forces in and around the former Yugoslavia.
    Sec. 8046. During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
which are available to the Department of Defense for operation 
and maintenance may be used to purchase items having an 
investment item unit cost of not more than $100,000.
    Sec. 8047. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Department of Defense 
Working Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase of an 
investment item for the purpose of acquiring a new inventory 
item for sale or anticipated sale during the current fiscal 
year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers of the Department 
of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an item would not have 
been chargeable to the Department of Defense Business 
Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and if the purchase of 
such an investment item would be chargeable during the current 
fiscal year to appropriations made to the Department of Defense 
for procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 2001 budget request for the Department 
of Defense as well as all justification material and other 
documentation supporting the fiscal year 2001 Department of 
Defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress 
on the basis that any equipmentwhich was classified as an end 
item and funded in a procurement appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be budgeted for in a proposed fiscal year 2001 procurement 
appropriation and not in the supply management business area or any 
other area or category of the Department of Defense Working Capital 
Funds.
    Sec. 8048. None of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
programs of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except 
for funds appropriated for the Reserve for Contingencies, which 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That 
funds appropriated, transferred, or otherwise credited to the 
Central Intelligence Agency Central Services Working Capital 
Fund during this or any prior or subsequent fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 8049. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available in this Act for the Defense Intelligence 
Agency may be used for the design, development, and deployment 
of General Defense Intelligence Program intelligence 
communications and intelligence information systems for the 
Services, the Unified and Specified Commands, and the component 
commands.
    Sec. 8050. Of the funds appropriated by the Department of 
Defense under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', not less than $8,000,000 shall be made available only 
for the mitigation of environmental impacts, including training 
and technical assistance to tribes, related administrative 
support, the gathering of information, documenting of 
environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for 
mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department of 
Defense activities.
    Sec. 8051. Amounts collected for the use of the facilities 
of the National Science Center for Communications and 
Electronics during the current fiscal year pursuant to section 
1459(g) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986, 
and deposited to the special account established under 
subsection 1459(g)(2) of that Act are appropriated and shall be 
available until expended for the operation and maintenance of 
the Center as provided for in subsection 1459(g)(2).
    Sec. 8052. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
be used to fill the commander's position at any military 
medical facility with a health care professional unless the 
prospective candidate can demonstrate professional 
administrative skills.
    Sec. 8053. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
may be expended by an entity of the Department of Defense 
unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the 
Buy American Act. For purposes of this subsection, the term 
``Buy American Act'' means title III of the Act entitled ``An 
Act making appropriations for the Treasury and Post Office 
Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, and for 
other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et 
seq.).
    (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person 
has been convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription to any product sold in or 
shipped to the United States that is not made in America, the 
Secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 2410f of 
title 10, United States Code, whether the person should be 
debarred from contracting with the Department of Defense.
    (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that any entity of the Department of Defense, in 
expending the appropriation, purchase only American-made 
equipment and products, provided that American-made equipment 
and products are cost-competitive, quality-competitive, and 
available in a timely fashion.
    Sec. 8054. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be available for a contract for studies, analysis, or 
consulting services entered into without competition on the 
basis of an unsolicited proposal unless the head of the 
activity responsible for the procurement determines--
            (1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, 
        only one source is found fully qualified to perform the 
        proposed work;
            (2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an 
        unsolicited proposal which offers significant 
        scientific or technological promise, represents the 
        product of original thinking, and was submitted in 
        confidence by one source; or
            (3) the purpose of the contract is to take 
        advantage of unique and significant industrial 
        accomplishment by a specific concern, or to insure that 
        a new product or idea of a specific concern is given 
        financial support:
Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to contracts in 
an amount of less than $25,000, contracts related to 
improvements of equipment that is in development or production, 
or contracts as to which a civilian official of the Department 
of Defense, who has been confirmed by the Senate, determines 
that the award of such contract is in the interest of the 
national defense.
    Sec. 8055. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and 
(c), none of the funds made available by this Act may be used--
            (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
            (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed 
        Forces or civilian employee of the department who is 
        transferred or reassigned from a headquarters activity 
        if the member or employee's place of duty remains at 
        the location of that headquarters.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military 
department may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a 
case-by-case basis, if the Secretary determines, and certifies 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate that the granting of the waiver will 
reduce the personnel requirements or the financial requirements 
of the department.
    (c) This section does not apply to field operating agencies 
funded within the National Foreign Intelligence Program.
    Sec. 8056. Funds appropriated by this Act and in Public Law 
105-277, or made available by the transfer of funds in this Act 
and in Public Law 105-277 for intelligence activities are 
deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2000 until the enactment of 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000.
    Sec. 8057. Notwithstanding section 303 of Public Law 96-487 
or any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Navy is 
authorized to lease real and personal property at Naval Air 
Facility, Adak, Alaska, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2667(f), for 
commercial, industrial or other purposes: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
the Navy may remove hazardous materials from facilities, 
buildings, and structures at Adak, Alaska, and may demolish or 
otherwise dispose of such facilities, buildings, and 
structures: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not more than $4,650,000 of the funds 
provided under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' 
in title II of this Act shall be available to the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, only for 
demolition and removal of facilities, buildings, and structures 
formerly used as a District Headquarters Office by the Corps of 
Engineers (Northwest Division, CENWW, Washington State), as 
described in the study conducted regarding the headquarters 
pursuant to the Energy and Water Development Appropriations 
Act, 1992 (Public Law 102-104; 105 Stat. 511).


                             (rescissions)


    Sec. 8058. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded 
as of the date of the enactment of this Act, from the following 
accounts and programs in the specified amounts:
            ``Other Procurement, Navy, 1998/2000'', $2,167,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force, 1998/2000'', 
        $15,800,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Army, 1999/2001'', 
        $13,700,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1999/2001'', 
        $41,500,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy, 1999/2003'':
                    New Attack Submarine, $32,400,000;
                    CVN-69, $11,400,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Navy, 1999/2001'', 
        $13,784,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force, 1999/2001'', 
        $29,729,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1999/2001'', 
        $130,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army, 
        1999/2000'', $5,400,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy, 
        1999/2000'', $14,900,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air 
        Force, 1999/2000'', $15,900,000; and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
        Defense-Wide, 1999/2000'', $23,500,000.
    Sec. 8059. None of the funds available in this Act may be 
used to reduce the authorized positions for military (civilian) 
technicians of the Army National Guard, the Air National Guard, 
Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve for the purpose of applying 
any administratively imposed civilian personnel ceiling, 
freeze, or reduction on military (civilian) technicians, unless 
such reductions are a direct result of a reduction in military 
force structure.
    Sec. 8060. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea 
unless specifically appropriated for that purpose.
    Sec. 8061. During the current fiscal year, funds 
appropriated in this Act are available to compensate members of 
the National Guard for duty performed pursuant to a plan 
submitted by a Governor of a State and approved by the 
Secretary of Defense under section 112 of title 32, United 
States Code: Provided, That during the performance of such 
duty, the members of the National Guard shall be under State 
command and control: Provided further, That such duty shall be 
treated as full-time National Guard duty for purposes of 
sections 12602(a)(2) and (b)(2) of title 10, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8062. Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and 
maintenance of the Military Departments, Unified and Specified 
Commands and Defense Agencies shall be available for 
reimbursement of pay, allowances and other expenses which would 
otherwise be incurred against appropriations for the National 
Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard and 
Reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence support to 
Unified Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence 
Activities, including the activities and programs included 
within the National Foreign Intelligence Program (NFIP), the 
Joint Military Intelligence Program (JMIP), and the Tactical 
Intelligence and Related Activities (TIARA) aggregate: 
Provided, That nothing in this section authorizes deviation 
from established Reserve and National Guard personnel and 
training procedures.
    Sec. 8063. During the current fiscal year, none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be used to reduce the 
civilian medical and medical support personnel assigned to 
military treatment facilities below the September 30, 1999 
level: Provided, That the Service Surgeons General may waive 
this section by certifying to the congressional defense 
committees that the beneficiary population is declining in some 
catchment areas and civilian strength reductions may be 
consistent with responsible resource stewardship and 
capitation-based budgeting.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8064. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act 
may be transferred to or obligated from the Pentagon 
Reservation Maintenance Revolving Fund, unless the Secretary of 
Defense certifies that the total cost for the planning, design, 
construction and installation of equipment for the renovation 
of the Pentagon Reservation will not exceed $1,222,000,000.
    (b) The Secretary shall, in conjunction with the Pentagon 
Renovation, design and construct secure secretarial offices and 
support facilities and security-related changes to the subway 
entrance at the Pentagon Reservation.
    Sec. 8065. (a) None of the funds available to the 
Department of Defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction 
or counter-drug activities may be transferred to any other 
department or agency of the United States except as 
specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence 
Agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction and counter-
drug activities may be transferred to any other department or 
agency of the United States except as specifically provided in 
an appropriations law.


                          (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8066. Appropriations available in this Act under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for 
increasing energy and water efficiency in Federal buildings 
may, during their period of availability, be transferred to 
other appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense for 
projects related to increasing energy and water efficiency, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same general 
purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 8067. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other 
than those produced by a domestic source and of domestic 
origin: Provided, That the Secretary of the military department 
responsible for such procurement may waive this restriction on 
a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, that adequate domestic supplies are not available to 
meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis and 
that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8068. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds available to the Department of Defense shall be made 
available to provide transportation of medical supplies and 
equipment, on a nonreimbursable basis, to American Samoa, and 
funds available to the Department of Defense shall be made 
available to provide transportation of medical supplies and 
equipment, on a nonreimbursable basis, to the Indian Health 
Service when it is in conjunction with a civil-military 
project.
    Sec. 8069. None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
purchase any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the 
United States, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that such an acquisition must 
be made in order to acquire capability for national security 
purposes that is not available from United States 
manufacturers.
    Sec. 8070. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Naval shipyards of the United States shall be eligible to 
participate in any manufacturing extension program financed by 
funds appropriated in this or any other Act.
    Sec. 8071. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
contract awarded by the Department of Defense during the 
current fiscal year for construction or service performed in 
whole or in part in a State (as defined in section 381(d) of 
title 10, United States Code) which is not contiguous with 
another State and has an unemployment rate in excess of the 
national average rate of unemployment as determined by the 
Secretary of Labor, shall include a provision requiring the 
contractor to employ, for the purpose of performing that 
portion of the contract in such State that is not contiguous 
with another State, individuals who are residents of such State 
and who, in the case of any craft or trade, possess or would be 
able to acquire promptly the necessary skills: Provided, That 
the Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements of this 
section, on a case-by-case basis, in the interest of national 
security.
    Sec. 8072. During the current fiscal year, the Army shall 
use the former George Air Force Base as the airhead for the 
National Training Center at Fort Irwin: Provided, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
transport Army personnel into Edwards Air Force Base for 
training rotations at the National Training Center.
    Sec. 8073. (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit, on a 
quarterly basis, a report to the congressional defense 
committees, the Committee on International Relations of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
of the Senate setting forth all costs (including incremental 
costs) incurred by the Department of Defense during the 
preceding quarter in implementing or supporting resolutions of 
the United Nations Security Council, including any such 
resolution calling for international sanctions, international 
peacekeeping operations, and humanitarian missions undertaken 
by the Department of Defense. The quarterly report shall 
include an aggregate of all such Department of Defense costs by 
operation or mission.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall detail in the quarterly 
reports all efforts made to seek credit against past United 
Nations expenditures and all efforts made to seek compensation 
from the United Nations for costs incurred by the Department of 
Defense in implementing and supporting United Nations 
activities.
    Sec. 8074. (a) Limitation on Transfer of Defense Articles 
and Services.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
current fiscal year may be obligated or expended to transfer to 
another nation or an international organization any defense 
articles or services (other than intelligence services) for use 
in the activities described in subsection (b) unless the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate are notified 
15 days in advance of such transfer.
    (b) Covered Activities.--This section applies to--
            (1) any international peacekeeping or peace-
        enforcement operation under the authority of chapter VI 
        or chapter VII of the United Nations Charter under the 
        authority of a United Nations Security Council 
        resolution; and
            (2) any other international peacekeeping, peace-
        enforcement, or humanitarian assistance operation.
    (c) Required Notice.--A notice under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description of the equipment, supplies, or 
        services to be transferred.
            (2) A statement of the value of the equipment, 
        supplies, or services to be transferred.
            (3) In the case of a proposed transfer of equipment 
        or supplies--
                    (A) a statement of whether the inventory 
                requirements of all elements of the Armed 
                Forces (including the reserve components) for 
                the type of equipment or supplies to be 
                transferred have been met; and
                    (B) a statement of whether the items 
                proposed to be transferred will have to be 
                replaced and, if so, how the President proposes 
                to provide funds for such replacement.
    Sec. 8075. To the extent authorized by subchapter VI of 
chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense may issue loan guarantees in support of United States 
defense exports not otherwise provided for: Provided, That the 
total contingent liability of the United States for guarantees 
issued under the authority of this section may not exceed 
$15,000,000,000: Provided further, That the exposure fees 
charged and collected by the Secretary for each guarantee, 
shall be paid by the country involved and shall not be financed 
as part of a loan guaranteed by the United States: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall provide quarterly reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services and Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations, 
Armed Services and International Relations in the House of 
Representatives on the implementation of this program: Provided 
further, That amounts charged for administrative fees and 
deposited to the special account provided for under section 
2540c(d) of title 10, shall be available for paying the costs 
of administrative expenses of the Department of Defense that 
are attributable to the loan guarantee program under subchapter 
VI of chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8076. None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to pay a 
contractor under a contract with the Department of Defense for 
costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an employee 
when--
            (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in 
        excess of the normal salary paid by the contractor to 
        the employee; and
            (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs 
        associated with a business combination.
    Sec. 8077. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this Act may be used to transport or provide 
for the transportation of chemical munitions or agents to the 
Johnston Atoll for the purpose of storing or demilitarizing 
such munitions or agents.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
any obsolete World War II chemical munition or agent of the 
United States found in the World War II Pacific Theater of 
Operations.
    (c) The President may suspend the application of subsection 
(a) during a period of war in which the United States is a 
party.
    Sec. 8078. None of the funds provided in title II of this 
Act for ``Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction'' may be 
obligated or expended to finance housing for any individual who 
was a member of the military forces of the Soviet Union or for 
any individual who is or was a member of the military forces of 
the Russian Federation.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8079. During the current fiscal year, no more than 
$10,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be 
transferred to appropriations available for the pay of military 
personnel, to be merged with, and to be available for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred, to be 
used in support of such personnel in connection with support 
and services for eligible organizations and activities outside 
the Department of Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 8080. For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, 
United States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in 
this Act under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy'' shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any 
subdivision under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy'' appropriations in any prior year, and the 1 percent 
limitation shall apply to the total amount of the 
appropriation.
    Sec. 8081. During the current fiscal year, in the case of 
an appropriation account of the Department of Defense for which 
the period of availability for obligation has expired or which 
has closed under the provisions of section 1552 of title 31, 
United States Code, and which has a negative unliquidated or 
unexpended balance, an obligation or an adjustment of an 
obligation may be charged to any current appropriation account 
for the same purpose as the expired or closed account if--
            (1) the obligation would have been properly 
        chargeable (except as to amount) to the expired or 
        closed account before the end of the period of 
        availability or closing of that account;
            (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly 
        chargeable to any current appropriation account of the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (3) in the case of an expired account, the 
        obligation is not chargeable to a current appropriation 
        of the Department of Defense under the provisions of 
        section 1405(b)(8) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, Public Law 101-
        510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note): Provided, That 
        in the case of an expired account, if subsequent review 
        or investigation discloses that there was not in fact a 
        negative unliquidated or unexpended balance in the 
        account, any charge to a current account under the 
        authority of this section shall be reversed and 
        recorded against the expired account: Provided further, 
        That the total amount charged to a current 
        appropriation under this section may not exceed an 
        amount equal to 1 percent of the total appropriation 
        for that account.


                          (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8082. Upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall make the following transfers of funds: Provided, 
That the amounts transferred shall be available for the same 
purposes as the appropriations to which transferred, and for 
the same time period as the appropriation from which 
transferred: Provided further, That the amounts shall be 
transferred between the following appropriations in the amount 
specified:
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1988/2001'':
                            SSN-688 attack submarine program, 
                        $6,585,000;
                            CG-47 cruiser program, $12,100,000;
                            Aircraft carrier service life 
                        extension program, $202,000;
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $2,311,000;
                            LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, 
                        $566,000;
                            T-AO fleet oiler program, 
                        $3,494,000;
                            AO conversion program, $133,000;
                            Craft, outfitting, and post 
                        delivery, $1,688,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1995/2001'':
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $27,079,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1989/2000'':
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $13,200,000;
                            Aircraft carrier service life 
                        extension program, $186,000;
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $3,621,000;
                            LCAC landing craft, air cushioned 
                        program, $1,313,000;
                            T-AO fleet oiler program, $258,000;
                            AOE combat support ship program, 
                        $1,078,000;
                            AO conversion program, $881,000;
                            T-AGOS drug interdiction 
                        conversion, $407,000;
                            Outfitting and post delivery, 
                        $219,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1996/2000'':
                            LPD-17 amphibious transport dock 
                        ship, $21,163,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1990/2002'':
                            SSN-688 attack submarine program, 
                        $5,606,000;
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $6,000,000;
                            ENTERPRISE refueling/modernization 
                        program, $2,306,000;
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $183,000;
                            LSD-41 dock landing ship cargo 
                        variant program, $501,000;
                            LCAC landing craft, air cushioned 
                        program, $345,000;
                            MCM mine countermeasures program, 
                        $1,369,000;
                            Moored training ship demonstration 
                        program, $1,906,000;
                            Oceanographic ship program, 
                        $1,296,000;
                            AOE combat support ship program, 
                        $4,086,000;
                            AO conversion program, $143,000;
                            Craft, outfitting, post delivery, 
                        and ship special support equipment, 
                        $1,209,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1990/2002'':
                            T-AGOS surveillance ship program, 
                        $5,000,000;
                            Coast Guard icebreaker program, 
                        $8,153,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1996/2002'':
                            LPD-17 amphibious transport dock 
                        ship, $7,192,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1998/2002'':
                            CVN refuelings, $4,605,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1991/2001'':
                            SSN-21(AP) attack submarine 
                        program, $1,614,000;
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $5,647,000;
                            LSD-41 dock landing ship cargo 
                        variant program, $1,389,000;
                            LCAC landing craft, air cushioned 
                        program, $330,000;
                            AOE combat support ship program, 
                        $1,435,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1998/2001'':
                            CVN refuelings, $10,415,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1992/2001'':
                            SSN-21 attack submarine program, 
                        $11,983,000;
                            Craft, outfitting, post delivery, 
                        and DBOF transfer, $836,000;
                            Escalation, $5,378,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1998/2001'':
                            CVN refuelings, $18,197,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1993/2002'':
                            Carrier replacement program (AP), 
                        $30,332,000;
                            LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, 
                        $676,000;
                            AOE combat support ship program, 
                        $2,066,000;
                            Craft, outfitting, post delivery, 
                        and first destination transportation, 
                        and inflation adjustments, $2,127,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1998/2002'':
                            CVN refuelings, $29,844,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1999/2002'':
                            Craft, outfitting, post delivery, 
                        conversions, and first destination 
                        transportation, $5,357,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1994/2003'':
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $23,900,000;
                            Oceanographic ship program, $9,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1994/2003'':
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $18,349,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1995/1999'':
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $5,383,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1996/2000'':
                            LPD-17 amphibious transport dock 
                        ship, $168,000;
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1999/2003'':
                            Craft, outfitting, post delivery, 
                        conversions, and first destination 
                        transportation, $9,000;
            From:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1996/2000'':
                            SSN-21 attack submarine program, 
                        $10,100,000;
                            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship 
                        program, $7,100,000;
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and 
                Conversion, Navy, 1996/2000'':
                            DDG-51 destroyer program, 
                        $3,723,000;
                            LPD-17 amphibious transport dock 
                        ship, $13,477,000.
    Sec. 8083. The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees by 
February 1, 2000, a detailed report identifying, by amount and 
by separate budget activity, activity group, subactivity group, 
line item, program element, program, project, subproject, and 
activity, any activity for which the fiscal year 2001 budget 
request was reduced because Congress appropriated funds above 
the President's budget request for that specific activity for 
fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 8084. Funds appropriated in title II of this Act and 
for the Defense Health Program in title VI of this Act for 
supervision and administration costs for facilities maintenance 
and repair, minor construction, or design projects may be 
obligated at the time the reimbursable order is accepted by the 
performing activity: Provided, That for the purpose of this 
section, supervision and administration costs includes all in-
house Government cost.
    Sec. 8085. During the current fiscal year, the Secretary of 
Defense may waive reimbursement of the cost of conferences, 
seminars, courses of instruction, or similar educational 
activities of the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies for 
military officers and civilian officials of foreign nations if 
the Secretary determines that attendance by such personnel, 
without reimbursement, is in the national security interest of 
the United States: Provided, That costs for which reimbursement 
is waived pursuant to this subsection shall be paid from 
appropriations available for the Asia-Pacific Center.
    Sec. 8086. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of 
equipment of the National Guard Distance Learning Project by 
any person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable basis. 
The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall establish the 
amount of reimbursement for such use on a case-by-case basis.
    (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be 
credited to funds available for the National Guard Distance 
Learning Project and be available to defray the costs 
associated with the use of equipment of the project under that 
subsection. Such funds shall be available for such purposes 
without fiscal year limitation.
    Sec. 8087. Using funds available by this Act or any other 
Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to a 
determination under section 2690 of title 10, United States 
Code, may implement cost-effective agreements for required 
heating facility modernization in the Kaiserslautern Military 
Community in the Federal Republic of Germany: Provided, That in 
the City of Kaiserslautern such agreements will include the use 
of United States anthracite as the base load energy for 
municipal district heat to the United States Defense 
installations: Provided further, That at Landstuhl Army 
Regional Medical Center and Ramstein Air Base, furnished heat 
may be obtained from private, regional or municipal services, 
if provisions are included for the consideration of United 
States coal as an energy source.
    Sec. 8088. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3902, during the 
current fiscal year, interest penalties may be paid by the 
Department of Defense from funds financing the operation of the 
military department or defense agency with which the invoice or 
contract payment is associated.
    Sec. 8089. None of the funds appropriated in title IV of 
this Act may be used to procure end-items for delivery to 
military forces for operational training, operational use or 
inventory requirements: Provided, That this restriction does 
not apply to end-items used in development, prototyping, and 
test activities preceding and leading to acceptance for 
operational use: Provided further, That this restriction does 
not apply to programs funded within the National Foreign 
Intelligence Program: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate that it is in the 
national security interest to do so.


                             (rescissions)


    Sec. 8090. Of the funds provided in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262), 
$452,100,000, to reflect savings from revised economic 
assumptions, is hereby rescinded as of the date of enactment of 
this Act, or October 1, 1999, whichever is later, from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', $8,000,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Army'', $7,000,000;
            ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat 
        Vehicles, Army'', $9,000,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', $6,000,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Army'', $19,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', $44,000,000;
            ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', $8,000,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine 
        Corps'', $3,000,000;
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', $37,000,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Navy'', $23,000,000;
            ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', $5,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', $46,000,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', $14,000,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force'', 
        $2,000,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', $44,400,000;
            ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', $5,200,000;
            ``Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, 
        Army'', $5,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
        Army'', $20,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
        Navy'', $40,900,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air 
        Force'', $76,900,000; and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
        Defense-Wide'', $28,700,000:
Provided, That these reductions shall be applied proportionally 
to each budget activity, activity group and subactivity group 
and each program, project, and activity within each 
appropriation account.
    Sec. 8091. The budget of the President for fiscal year 2001 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, and each annual budget request thereafter, 
shall include budget activity groups (known as 
``subactivities'') in all appropriations accounts provided in 
this Act, as may be necessary, to separately identify all costs 
incurred by the Department of Defense to support the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization and all Partnership For Peace 
programs and initiatives. The budget justification materials 
submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2001, and subsequent 
fiscal years, shall provide complete, detailed estimates for 
all such costs.
    Sec. 8092. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to approve or license the sale of the F-22 advanced 
tactical fighter to any foreign government.
    Sec. 8093. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-
case basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each 
limitation on the procurement of defense items from foreign 
sources provided in law if the Secretary determines that the 
application of the limitation with respect to that country 
would invalidate cooperative programs entered into between the 
Department of Defense and the foreign country, or would 
invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of 
defense items entered into under section 2531 of title 10, 
United States Code, and the country does not discriminate 
against the same or similar defense items produced in the 
United States for that country.
    (b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
            (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) options for the procurement of items that are 
        exercised after such date under contracts that are 
        entered into before such date if the option prices are 
        adjusted for any reason other than the application of a 
        waiver granted under subsection (a).
    (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, 
and clothing or textile materials as defined by section 11 
(chapters 50-65) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule and products 
classified under headings 4010, 4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 
6505, 7019, 7218 through 7229, 7304.41 through 7304.49, 
7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105, 8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 
9404.
    (d) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise provided 
for the Department of Defense in this or any other Act for any 
fiscal year may be obligated or expended for procurement of a 
nuclear-capable shipyard crane from a foreign source. 
Subsection (a) does not apply to the limitation in the 
preceding sentence.
    Sec. 8094. Funds made available to the Civil Air Patrol in 
this Act under the heading ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'' may be used for the Civil Air Patrol 
Corporation's counterdrug program, including its demand 
reduction program involving youth programs, as well as 
operational and training drug reconnaissance missions for 
Federal, State and local government agencies; for 
administrative costs, including the hiring of Civil Air Patrol 
Corporation employees; for travel and per diem expenses of 
Civil Air Patrol Corporation personnel in support of those 
missions; and for equipment needed for mission support or 
performance: Provided, That of these funds, $300,000 shall be 
made available to establish and operate a distance learning 
program: Provided further, That the Department of the Air Force 
should waive reimbursement from the Federal, State and local 
government agencies for the use of these funds.
    Sec. 8095. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
TRICARE managed care support contracts in effect, or in final 
stages of acquisition as of September 30, 1999, may be extended 
for two years: Provided, That any such extension may only take 
place if the Secretary of Defense determines that it is in the 
best interest of the Government: Provided further, That any 
contract extension shall be based on the price in the final 
best and final offer for the last year of the existing contract 
as adjusted for inflation and other factors mutually agreed to 
by the contractor and the Government: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all future TRICARE 
managed care support contracts replacing contracts in effect, 
or in the final stages of acquisition as of September 30, 1999, 
may include a base contract period for transition and up to 
seven one-year option periods.
    Sec. 8096. None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
compensate an employee of the Department of Defense who 
initiates a new start program without notification to the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Office of Management 
and Budget, and the congressional defense committees, as 
required by Department of Defense financial management 
regulations.
    Sec. 8097. In addition to the amounts provided elsewhere in 
this Act, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and is available only for a grant to the 
Women in Military Service for America Memorial Foundation, 
Inc., only for costs associated with completion of the ``Women 
in Military Service For America'' memorial at Arlington 
National Cemetery.
    Sec. 8098. Training and Other Programs. (a) Prohibition.--
None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
support any training program involving a unit of the security 
forces of a foreign country if the Secretary of Defense has 
received credible information from the Department of State that 
the unit has committed a gross violation of human rights, 
unless all necessary corrective steps have been taken.
    (b) Monitoring.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall ensure that prior to a 
decision to conduct any training program referred to in 
subsection (a), full consideration is given to all credible 
information available to the Department of State relating to 
human rights violations by foreign security forces.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition in 
subsection (a) if he determines that such waiver is required by 
extraordinary circumstances.
    (d) Report.--Not more than 15 days after the exercise of 
any waiver under subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit a report to the congressional defense committees 
describing the extraordinary circumstances, the purpose and 
duration of the training program, the United States forces and 
the foreign security forces involved in the training program, 
and the information relating to human rights violations that 
necessitates the waiver.
    Sec. 8099. The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may carry out a 
program to distribute surplus dental equipment of the 
Department of Defense, at no cost to the Department of Defense, 
to Indian health service facilities and to federally-qualified 
health centers (within the meaning of section 1905(l)(2)(B) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B))).
    Sec. 8100. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$123,200,000 to reflect savings from the pay of civilian 
personnel, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $30,900,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $66,600,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $9,200,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
        $16,500,000.
    Sec. 8101. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$171,000,000 to reflect savings from favorable foreign currency 
fluctuations, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Military Personnel, Army'', $19,100,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $2,200,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', $9,900,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $80,700,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $13,700,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force,'' 
        $26,900,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
        $8,700,000; and
            ``Defense Health Program'', $9,800,000.
    Sec. 8102. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Defense may retain all or a portion of the family 
housing at Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico, as the Secretary deems 
necessary to meet military family housing needs arising out of 
the relocation of elements of the United States Army South to 
Fort Buchanan.
    Sec. 8103. From within amounts made available in title II 
of this Act, under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Army'', and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$12,500,000 shall be available only for repairs and safety 
improvements to the segment of Fort Irwin Road which extends 
from Interstate 15 northeast toward the boundary of Fort Irwin, 
California and the originating intersection of Irwin Road: 
Provided, That these funds shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the authorized scope of work 
includes, but is not limited to, environmental documentation 
and mitigation, engineering and design, improving safety, 
resurfacing, widening lanes, enhancing shoulders, and replacing 
signs and pavement markings: Provided further, That these funds 
may be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, 
Department of Transportation, for the authorized scope of work.
    Sec. 8104. Funds appropriated to the Department of the Navy 
in title II of this Act may be available to replace lost and 
canceled Treasury checks issued to Trans World Airlines in the 
total amount of $255,333.24 for which timely claims were filed 
and for which detailed supporting records no longer exist.
    Sec. 8105. None of the funds appropriated or made available 
in this Act to the Department of the Navy shall be used to 
develop, lease or procure the ADC(X) class of ships unless the 
main propulsion diesel engines and propulsors are manufactured 
in the United States by a domestically operated entity: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive this 
restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies 
are not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on 
a timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in 
order to acquire capability for national security purposes or 
there exists a significant cost or quality difference.
    Sec. 8106. From within amounts made available in title II 
of this Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'', and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$2,500,000 shall be available only for a grant for ``America's 
Promise--The Alliance for Youth, Inc.'', only to support, on a 
dollar-for-dollar matching basis with non-departmental funds, 
efforts to mobilize individuals, groups and organizations to 
build and strengthen the character and competence of the 
Nation's youth.
    Sec. 8107. Of the funds made available in this Act, not 
less than $47,100,000 shall be available to maintain an 
attrition reserve force of 23 B-52 aircraft, of which 
$3,100,000 shall be available from ``Military Personnel, Air 
Force'', $34,500,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Air Force'', and $9,600,000 shall be available 
from ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'': Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain a total force of 94 
B-52 aircraft, including 23 attrition reserve aircraft, during 
fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall include in the Air Force budget request for 
fiscal year 2001 amounts sufficient to maintain a B-52 force 
totaling 94 aircraft.
    Sec. 8108. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in title II is hereby reduced by 
$100,000,000 to reflect savings resulting from reviews of 
Department of Defense missions and functions conducted pursuant 
to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76, to be 
distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $34,300,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $22,800,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $1,400,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $41,500,000:
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended for the 
purpose of contracting out functions directly related to the 
award of Department of Defense contracts, oversight of 
contractors with the Department of Defense, or the payment of 
such contractors including, but not limited to: contracting 
technical officers, contact administration officers, accounting 
and finance officers, and budget officers.
    Sec. 8109. (a) Report on OMB Circular A-76 Reviews of Work 
Performed by DOD Employees.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
submit a report not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
this Act which lists all instances since 1995 in which missions 
or functions of the Department of Defense have been reviewed by 
the Department of Defense pursuant to OMB Circular A-76. The 
report shall list the disposition of each such review and 
indicate whether the review resulted in the performance of such 
missions or functions by Department of Defense civilian and 
military personnel, or whether such reviews resulted in 
performance by contractors. The report shall include a 
description of the types of missions or functions, the 
locations where the missions or functions are performed, the 
name of the contractor performing the work (if applicable), the 
cost to perform the missions or functions at the time the 
review was conducted, and the current cost to perform the 
missions or functions.
    (b) Report on OMB Circular A-76 Reviews of Work Performed 
by DOD Contractors.--The report shall also identify those 
instances in which work performed by a contractor has been 
converted to performance by civilian or military employees of 
the Department of Defense. For each instance of contracting in, 
the report shall include a description of the types of work, 
the locations where the work was performed, the name of the 
contractor that was performing the work, the cost of contractor 
performance at the time the work was contracted in, and the 
current cost of performance by civilian or military employees 
of the Department of Defense. In addition, the report shall 
include recommendations for maximizing the possibility of 
effective public-private competition for work that has been 
contracted out.
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date on which the Secretary submits the annual 
report, the Comptroller General shall submit to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations the Comptroller General's 
views on whether the Department has complied with the 
requirements for the report.
    Sec. 8110. The budget of the President for fiscal year 2001 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, and each annual budget request thereafter, 
shall include separate budget justification documents for costs 
of United States armed forces' participation in contingency 
operations for the Military Personnel accounts, the Procurement 
accounts, and the Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer 
Fund: Provided, That these budget justification documents shall 
include a description of the funding requested for each 
anticipated contingency operation, for each military service, 
to include active duty and Guard and Reserve components, and 
for each appropriation account: Provided further, That these 
documents shall include estimated costs for each element of 
expense or object class, a reconciliation of increases and 
decreases for ongoing contingency operations, and programmatic 
data including, but not limited to troop strength for each 
active duty and Guard and Reserve component, and estimates of 
the major weapons systems deployed in support of each 
contingency.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8111. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this Act, $35,000,000 is hereby appropriated, 
only to initiate and expand activities of the Department of 
Defense to prevent, prepare for, and respond to a terrorist 
attack in the United States involving weapons of mass 
destruction: Provided, That funds made available under this 
section shall be transferred to the following accounts:
            ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', $2,000,000;
            ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $2,000,000;
            ``National Guard Personnel, Air Force'', $500,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $24,500,000; 
        and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
        Army'', $6,000,000:
Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to this 
section shall be merged with and be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period as the appropriation to 
which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this section is in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That of the funds transferred to ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Army'', not less than $3,000,000 shall be made 
available only to establish a cost effective counter-terrorism 
training program for first responders and concurrent testing of 
response apparatus and equipment at the Memorial Tunnel 
Facility: Provided further, That of the funds transferred to 
``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', not less than $2,000,000 
shall be made available only to support development of a 
structured undergraduate research program for chemical and 
biological warfare defense designed to produce graduates with 
specialized laboratory training and scientific skills required 
by military and industrial laboratories engaged in combating 
the threat of biological and chemical terrorism: Provided 
further, That of the funds transferred to ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Army'', not less than $3,500,000 shall be made 
available for a National Guard Bureau and Department of Justice 
collaborative training program only to enhance distance 
learning technologies and develop related courseware to provide 
training for counter-terrorism and related concerns: Provided 
further, That of the funds transferred to ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Army'', not less than 
$3,000,000 shall be made available only to continue development 
and presentation of advanced distributed learning consequence 
management response courses and conventional courses.
    Sec. 8112. (a) The Secretary of Defense shall, along with 
submission of the fiscal year 2001 budget request for the 
Department of Defense, submit to the congressionaldefense 
committees a report, in both unclassified and classified versions, 
which contains an assessment of the advantages or disadvantages of 
deploying a ground-based National Missile Defense system at more than 
one site.
    (b) This report shall include, but not be limited to, an 
assessment of the following issues:
            (1) The ability of a single site, versus multiple 
        sites, to counter the expected ballistic missile 
        threat;
            (2) The optimum basing locations for a single and 
        multiple site National Missile Defense system;
            (3) The survivability and redundancy of potential 
        National Missile Defense systems under a single or 
        multiple site architecture;
            (4) The estimated costs (including development, 
        construction and infrastructure, and procurement of 
        equipment) associated with different site deployment 
        options; and
            (5) Other issues bearing on deploying a National 
        Missile Defense system at one or more sites.
    Sec. 8113. The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of 
the Air Force each shall submit a report to the congressional 
defense committees within 90 days of enactment of this Act in 
both classified and unclassified form which shall provide a 
detailed description of the dedicated aggressor squadrons used 
to conduct combat flight training for the Navy, Marine Corps 
and Air Force covering the period from fiscal year 1990 through 
the present. For each year of the specified time period, each 
report shall provide a detailed description of the following: 
the assets which comprise dedicated aggressor squadrons 
including both aircrews, and the types and models of aircraft 
assigned to these squadrons; the number of training sorties for 
all forms of combat flight training which require aggressor 
aircraft, and the number of sorties that the dedicated 
aggressor squadrons can generate to meet these requirements; 
the ratio of the total inventory of attack and fighter aircraft 
to the number of aircraft available for dedicated aggressor 
squadrons; a comparison of the performance characteristics of 
the aircraft assigned to dedicated aggressor squadrons compared 
to the performance characteristics of the aircraft they are 
intended to represent in training scenarios; an assessment of 
pilot proficiency by year from 1986 to the present; Service 
recommendations to enhance aggressor squadron proficiency to 
include number of dedicated aircraft, equipment, facilities, 
and personnel; and a plan that proposes improvements in 
dissimilar aircraft air combat training.
    Sec. 8114. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or other Department of Defense Appropriations 
Acts may be obligated or expended for the purpose of performing 
repairs or maintenance to military family housing units of the 
Department of Defense, including areas in such military family 
housing units that may be used for the purpose of conducting 
official Department of Defense business: Provided, That the 
Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General shall 
provide a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
this Act which assesses the compliance of each of the military 
services with applicable appropriations law, Office of 
Management and Budget circulars, and Undersecretary of Defense 
(Comptroller) directives which govern funding for maintenance 
and repairs to flag officer quarters: Provided further, That 
this report shall include an assessment as to whether there 
have been violations of the Anti-Deficiency Act resulting from 
instances of improper funding of such maintenance and repair 
projects.
    Sec. 8115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any 
advanced concept technology demonstration project may only be 
obligated thirty days after a report, including a description 
of the project and its estimated annual and total cost, has 
been provided in writing to the congressional defense 
committees: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive 
this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying to the 
congressional defense committees that it is in the national 
interest to do so: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262) which remain 
available for obligation are available for the Line of Sight 
Anti-Tank Program: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' in Public Law 105-262, 
$10,027,000 shall be available only for the Air Directed 
Surface to Air Missile.
    Sec. 8116. None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' in 
the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 
105-262) which remain available for obligation are available 
for the Medium Extended Air Defense System or successor 
systems.
    Sec. 8117. Of the funds appropriated in title II of this 
Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$250,000 shall be available only for a grant to the Nebraska 
Game and Parks Commission for the purpose of locating, 
identifying the boundaries of, acquiring, preserving, and 
memorializing the cemetery site that is located in close 
proximity to Fort Atkinson, Nebraska. The Secretary of the Army 
shall require as a condition of such grant that the Nebraska 
Game and Parks Commission, in carrying out the purposes of 
which the grant is made, work in conjunction with the Nebraska 
State Historical Society. The grant under this section shall be 
made without regard to section 1301 of title 31, United States 
Code, or any other provision of law.
    Sec. 8118. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of establishing all Department of Defense policies 
governing the provision of care provided by and financed under 
the military health care system's case management program under 
10 U.S.C. 1079(a)(17), the term ``custodial care'' shall be 
defined as care designed essentially to assist an individual in 
meeting the activities of daily living and which does not 
require the supervision of trained medical, nursing, 
paramedical or other specially trained individuals: Provided, 
That the case management program shall provide that members and 
retired members of the military services, and their dependents 
and survivors, have access to all medically necessary health 
care through the health care delivery system of the military 
services regardless of the health care status of the person 
seeking the health care: Provided further, That the case 
management program shall be the primary obligor for paymentof 
medically necessary services and shall not be considered as secondarily 
liable to Title XIX of The Social Security Act, other welfare programs 
or charity based care.
    Sec. 8119. During the current fiscal year--
            (1) refunds attributable to the use of the 
        Government travel card and refunds attributable to 
        official Government travel arranged by Government 
        Contracted Travel Management Centers may be credited to 
        operation and maintenance accounts of the Department of 
        Defense which are current when the refunds are 
        received; and
            (2) refunds attributable to the use of the 
        Government Purchase Card by military personnel and 
        civilian employees of the Department of Defense may be 
        credited to accounts of the Department of Defense that 
        are current when the refunds are received and that are 
        available for the same purposes as the accounts 
        originally charged.
    Sec. 8120. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, 
any Federal grant of funds to an institution of higher 
education to be available solely for student financial 
assistance or related administrative costs may be used for the 
purpose for which the grant is made without regard to any 
provision to the contrary in section 514 of the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 (10 U.S.C. 503 note), or 
section 983 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8121. (a) Registering Information Technology Systems 
With DOD Chief Information Officer.--After March 31, 2000, none 
of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for a mission 
critical or mission essential information technology system 
(including a system funded by the defense working capital fund) 
that is not registered with the Chief Information Officer of 
the Department of Defense. A system shall be considered to be 
registered with that officer upon the furnishing to that 
officer of notice of the system, together with such information 
concerning the system as the Secretary of Defense may 
prescribe. An information technology system shall be considered 
a mission critical or mission essential information technology 
system as defined by the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Certifications as to Compliance With Clinger-Cohen 
Act.--(1) During fiscal year 2000, a major automated 
information system may not receive Milestone I approval, 
Milestone II approval, or Milestone III approval within the 
Department of Defense until the Chief Information Officer 
certifies, with respect to that milestone, that the system is 
being developed in accordance with the Clinger-Cohen Act of 
1996 (40 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.). The Chief Information Officer 
may require additional certifications, as appropriate, with 
respect to any such system.
    (2) The Chief Information Officer shall provide the 
congressional defense committees timely notification of 
certifications under paragraph (1). Each such notification 
shall include, at a minimum, the funding baseline and milestone 
schedule for each system covered by such a certification and 
confirmation that the following steps have been taken with 
respect to the system:
            (A) Business process reengineering.
            (B) An analysis of alternatives.
            (C) An economic analysis that includes a 
        calculation of the return on investment.
            (D) Performance measures.
            (E) An information assurance strategy consistent 
        with the Department's Command, Control, Communications, 
        Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
        Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Architecture Framework.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``Chief Information Officer'' means 
        the senior official of the Department of Defense 
        designated by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to 
        section 3506 of title 44, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``information technology system'' has 
        the meaning given the term ``information technology'' 
        in section 5002 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 
        U.S.C. 1401).
            (3) The term ``major automated information system'' 
        has the meaning given that term in Department of 
        Defense Directive 5000.1.
    Sec. 8122. During the current fiscal year, none of the 
funds available to the Department of Defense may be used to 
provide support to another department or agency of the United 
States if such department or agency is more than 90 days in 
arrears in making payment to the Department of Defense for 
goods or services previously provided to such department or 
agency on a reimbursable basis: Provided, That this restriction 
shall not apply if the Department is authorized by law to 
provide support to such department or agency on a 
nonreimbursable basis, and is providing the requested support 
pursuant to such authority: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
that it is in the national security interest to do so.
    Sec. 8123. (a) Recovery of Certain DOD Administrative 
Expenses in Connection With Foreign Military Sales Program.--
Charges for administrative services calculated under section 
21(e) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761(e)) in 
connection with the sale of defense articles or defense 
services shall (notwithstanding paragraph (3) of section 43(b) 
of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2792(b)) include recovery of 
administrative expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during fiscal year 2000 that are attributable to (1) salaries 
of members of the Armed Forces, and (2) unfunded estimated 
costs of civilian retirement and other benefits.
    (b) Reimbursement of Applicable Military Personnel 
Accounts.--During the current fiscal year, amounts in the 
Foreign Military Sales Trust Fund shall be available in an 
amount not to exceed $63,000,000 to reimburse the applicable 
military personnel accounts in title I of this Act for the 
value of administrative expenses referred in subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Reductions To Reflect Amounts Expected To Be 
Recovered.--(1) The amounts in title I of this Act are hereby 
reduced by an aggregate of $63,000,000 (such amount being the 
amount expected to be recovered by reason of subsection 
(a)(1)).
    (2) The amounts in title II of this Act are hereby reduced 
by an aggregate of $31,000,000 (such amount being that amount 
expected to be recovered by reason of subsection (a)(2)).
    Sec. 8124. (a) The Communications Act of 1934 is amended in 
section 337(b) (47 U.S.C. 337(b)), by deleting paragraph (2). 
Upon enactment of this provision, the FCC shall initiate the 
competitive bidding process in fiscal year 1999 and shall 
conduct the competitive bidding in a manner that ensures that 
all proceeds of such bidding are deposited in accordance with 
section 309(j)(8) of the Act not later than September 30, 2000. 
To expedite the assignment by competitive bidding of the 
frequencies identified in section 337(a)(2) of the Act, the 
rules governing such frequencies shall be effective immediately 
upon publication in the Federal Register, notwithstanding 5 
U.S.C. 553(d), 801(a)(3), 804(2), and 806(a). Chapter 6 of such 
title, 15 U.S.C. 632, and 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 3512, shall not 
apply to the rules and competitive bidding procedures governing 
such frequencies. Notwithstanding section 309(b) of the Act, no 
application for an instrument of authorization for such 
frequencies shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 7 
days following issuance of public notice by the Commission of 
the acceptance for filing of such application or of any 
substantial amendment thereto. Notwithstanding section 
309(d)(1) of such Act, the Commission may specify a period (no 
less than 5 days following issuance of such public notice) for 
the filing of petitions to deny any application for an 
instrument of authorization for such frequencies.
    (b)(1) Not later than 15 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Federal Communications Commission shall each 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
which shall--
            (A) set forth the anticipated schedule (including 
        specific dates) for--
                    (i) preparing and conducting the 
                competitive bidding process required by 
                subsection (a); and
                    (ii) depositing the receipts of the 
                competitive bidding process;
            (B) set forth each signficant milestone in the 
        rulemaking process with respect to the competitive 
        bidding process;
            (C) include an explanation of the effect of each 
        requirement in subsection (a) on the schedule for the 
        competitive bidding process and any post-bidding 
        activities (including the deposit of receipts) when 
        compared with the schedule for the competitive bidding 
        and any post-bidding activities (including the deposit 
        of receipts) that would otherwise have occurred under 
        section 337(b)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
        U.S.C. 337(b)(2)) if not for the enactment of 
        subsection (a);
            (D) set forth for each spectrum auction held by the 
        Federal Communications Commission since 1993 
        information on--
                    (i) the time required for each stage of 
                preparation for the auction;
                    (ii) the date of the commencement and of 
                the completion of the auction;
                    (iii) the time which elapsed between the 
                date of the completion of the auction and the 
                date of the first deposit of receipts from the 
                auction in the Treasury; and
                    (iv) the dates of all subsequent deposits 
                of receipts from the auction in the Treasury; 
                and
            (E) include an assessment of how the stages of the 
        competitive bidding process required by subsection (a), 
        including preparation, commencement and completion, and 
        deposit of receipts, will differ from similar stages in 
        the auctions referred to in subparagraph (D).
    (2) Not later than October 5, 2000, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall each submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees the report which shall--
            (A) describe the course of the competitive bidding 
        process required by subsection (a) through September 
        30, 2000, including the amount of any receipts from the 
        competitive bidding process deposited in the Treasury 
        as of September 30, 2000; and
            (B) if the course of the competitive bidding 
        process has included any deviations from the schedule 
        set forth under paragraph (1)(A), an explanation for 
        such deviations from the schedule.
    (3) The Federal Communications Commission may not consult 
with the Director in the preparation and submittal of the 
reports required of the Commission by this subsection.
    (4) In this subsection, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means the following:
            (A) The Committees on Appropriations, the Budget, 
        and Commerce of the Senate.
            (B) The Committees on Appropriations, the Budget, 
        and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to supercede 
the requirements placed on the Federal Communications 
Commission by 47 U.S.C. 337(d)(4).
    Sec. 8125. (a) Report Required.--Not later than January 31, 
2000, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees in both classified and 
unclassified form a report on the conduct of Operation Desert 
Fox and Operation Allied Force (also referred to as Operation 
Noble Anvil). The Secretary of Defense shall submit to such 
committees a preliminary report on the conduct of these 
operations not later than December 15, 1999. The report 
(including the preliminary report) should be prepared in 
consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
the Commander in Chief of the United States Central Command, 
and the Commander in Chief of the United States European 
Command.
    (b) Review of Successes and Deficiencies.--The report 
should contain a thorough review of the successes and 
deficiencies of these operations, with respect to the following 
matters:
            (1) United States military objectives in these 
        operations.
            (2) With respect to Operation Allied Force, the 
        military strategy of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization (NATO) to obtain said military objectives.
            (3) The command structure for the execution of 
        Operation Allied Force.
            (4) The process for identifying, nominating, 
        selecting, and verifying targets to be attacked during 
        Operation Desert Fox and Operation Allied Force.
            (5) A comprehensive battle damage assessment of 
        targets prosecuted during the conduct of the air 
        campaigns in these operations, to include--
                    (A) fixed targets, both military and 
                civilian, to include bridges, roads, rail 
                lines, airfields, power generating plants, 
                broadcast facilities, oil refining 
                infrastructure, fuel and munitions storage 
                installations, industrial plants producing 
                military equipment, command and control nodes, 
                civilian leadership bunkers and military 
                barracks;
                    (B) mobile military targets such as tanks, 
                armored personnel carriers, artillery pieces, 
                trucks, and air defense assets;
                    (C) with respect to Operation Desert Fox, 
                research and production facilities associated 
                with Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and 
                ballistic missile programs, and any military 
                units or organizations associated with such 
                activities within Iraq; and
                    (D) a discussion of decoy, deception and 
                counter-intelligence techniques employed by the 
                Iraqi and Serbian military.
            (6) The use and performance of United States 
        military equipment, weapon systems, munitions, and 
        national and tactical reconnaissance and surveillance 
        assets (including items classified under special access 
        procedures) and an analysis of--
                    (A) any equipment or capabilities that were 
                in research and development and if available 
                could have been used in these operations' 
                respective theater of operations;
                    (B) any equipment or capabilities that were 
                available and could have been used but were not 
                introduced into these operations' respective 
                theater of operations; and
                    (C) any equipment or capabilities that were 
                introduced to these operations' respective 
                theater of operations that could have been used 
                but were not.
            (7) Command, control, communications and 
        operational security of NATO forces as a whole and 
        United States forces separately during Operation Allied 
        Force, including the ability of United States aircraft 
        to operate with aircraft of other nations without 
        degradation of capabilities or protection of United 
        States forces.
            (8) The deployment of United States forces and 
        supplies to the theater of operations, including an 
        assessment of airlift and sealift (to include a 
        specific assessment of the deployment of Task Force 
        Hawk during Operation Allied Force, to include detailed 
        explanations for the delay in initial deployment, the 
        suitability of equipment deployed compared to other 
        equipment in the U.S. inventory that was not deployed, 
        and a critique of the training provided to operational 
        personnel prior to and during the deployment).
            (9) The use of electronic warfare assets, in 
        particular an assessment of the adequacy of EA-6B 
        aircraft in terms of inventory, capabilities, 
        deficiencies, and ability to provide logistics support.
            (10) The effectiveness of reserve component forces 
        including their use and performance in the theater of 
        operations.
            (11) The contributions of United States (and with 
        respect to Operation Allied Force, NATO) intelligence 
        and counterintelligence systems and personnel, 
        including an assessment of the targeting selection and 
        bomb damage assessment process.
    (c) The report should also contain:
            (1) An analysis of the transfer of operational 
        assets from other United States Unified Commands to 
        these operations' theater of operations and the impact 
        on the readiness, warfighting capability and deterrence 
        value of those commands.
            (2) An analysis of the implications of these 
        operations as regards the ability of United States 
        armed forces and intelligence capabilities to carry out 
        the current national security strategy, including--
                    (A) whether the Department of Defense and 
                its components, and the intelligence community 
                and its components, have sufficient force 
                structure and manning as well as equipment (to 
                include items such as munitions stocks) to 
                deploy, prosecute and sustain operations in a 
                second major theater of war as called for under 
                the current national security strategy;
                    (B) which, if any aspects, of currently 
                programmed manpower, operations, training and 
                other readiness programs, and weapons and other 
                systems are found to be inadequate interms of 
                supporting the national military strategy; and
                    (C) what adjustments need to be made to 
                current defense planning and budgets, and 
                specific programs to redress any deficiencies 
                identified by this analysis.
    Sec. 8126. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition held 
by the Department of Defense that has a center-fire cartridge 
and a United States military nomenclature designation of 
``armor penetrator'', ``armor piercing (AP)'', ``armor piercing 
incendiary (API)'', or ``armor-piercing incendiary-tracer (API-
T)'', except to an entity performing demilitarization services 
for the Department of Defense under a contract that requires 
the entity to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department 
of Defense that armor piercing projectiles are either (1) 
rendered incapable of reuse by the demilitarization process or 
(2) used to manufacture ammunition pursuant to a contract with 
the Department of Defense or the manufacture of ammunition for 
export pursuant to a License for Permanent Export of 
Unclassified Military Articles issued by the Department of 
State.
    Sec. 8127. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, may waive 
payment of all or part of the consideration that otherwise 
would be required under 10 U.S.C. 2667, in the case of a lease 
of personal property for a period not in excess of one year to 
any organization specified in 32 U.S.C. 508(d), or any other 
youth, social, or fraternal non-profit organization as may be 
approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his 
designee, on a case-by-case basis.
    Sec. 8128. In the current fiscal year and hereafter, funds 
appropriated for the Pacific Disaster Center may be obligated 
to carry out such missions as the Secretary of Defense may 
specify for disaster information management and related 
supporting activities in the geographic area of responsibility 
of the Commander in Chief, Pacific and beyond in support of a 
global disaster information network: Provided, That the 
Secretary may enable the Pacific Disaster Center and its 
derivatives to enter into flexible public-private cooperative 
arrangements for the delegation or implementation of some or 
all of its missions and accept and provide grants, or other 
remuneration to or from any agency of the Federal government, 
state or local government, private source or foreign government 
to carry out any of its activities: Provided further, That the 
Pacific Disaster Center may not accept any remuneration or 
provide any service or grant which could compromise national 
security.
    Sec. 8129. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in Title I of this Act is hereby 
reduced by $1,838,426,000 to reflect amounts appropriated in 
Public Law 106-31. This amount is to be distributed as follows:
            ``Military Personnel, Army'', $559,533,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $436,773,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', $177,980,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', $471,892,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', $40,574,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', $29,833,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', $7,820,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', $13,143,000;
            ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $70,416,000; 
        and
            ``National Guard Personnel, Air Force'', 
        $30,462,000.
    Sec. 8130. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, that 
not more than thirty-five per centum of funds provided in this 
Act, may be obligated for environmental remediation under 
indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts with a total 
contract value of $130,000,000 or higher.
    Sec. 8131. Of the funds made available under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $5,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Transportation to enable the 
Secretary of Transportation to realign railroad track on 
Elmendorf Air Force Base.
    Sec. 8132. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be used for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity 
of the Department of Defense that procures malt beverages and 
wine with nonappropriated funds for resale (including such 
alcoholic beverages sold by the drink) on a military 
installation located in the United States unless such malt 
beverages and wine are procured within that State, or in the 
case of the District of Columbia, within the District of 
Columbia, in which the military installation is located: 
Provided, That in a case in which the military installation is 
located in more than one State, purchases may be made in any 
State in which the installation is located: Provided further, 
That such local procurement requirements for malt beverages and 
wine shall apply to all alcoholic beverages only for military 
installations in States which are not contiguous with another 
State: Provided further, That alcoholic beverages other than 
wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and the District 
of Columbia shall be procured from the most competitive source, 
price and other factors considered.
    Sec. 8133. Multi-year Aircraft Lease Pilot Program. (a) The 
Secretary of the Air Force may establish a multi-year pilot 
program for leasing aircraft for operational support purposes, 
including transportation for the combatant Commanders in Chief, 
on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may deem 
appropriate, consistent with this Section.
    (b) Sections 2401 and 2401a of Title 10, United States Code 
shall not apply to any aircraft lease authorized by this 
Section.
    (c) Under the aircraft lease Pilot Program authorized by 
this Section:
            (1) The Secretary may include terms and conditions 
        in lease agreements that are customary in aircraft 
        leases by a non-government lessor to a non-government 
        lessee.
            (2) The term of any individual lease agreement into 
        which the Secretary enters under this section shall not 
        exceed ten years.
            (3) The Secretary may provide for special payments 
        to a lessor if either the Secretary terminates or 
        cancels the lease prior to the expiration of its term 
        or aircraft are damaged or destroyed prior to the 
        expiration of the term of the lease. Such special 
        payments shall not exceed an amount equal to the value 
        of one year's lease payment under the lease. The amount 
        of special payments shall be subject to negotiation 
        between the Air Force and lessors.
            (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
        payments required under a lease under this Section, and 
        any payments made pursuant to Subsection (3) above may 
        be made from:
                    (A) Appropriations available for the 
                performance of the lease at the time the lease 
                takes effect;
                    (B) Appropriations for the operation and 
                maintenance available at the time which the 
                payment is due; and
                    (C) Funds appropriated for those payments.
            (5) The Secretary may lease aircraft, on such terms 
        and conditions as the Secretary may deem appropriate, 
        consistent with this section, through an operating 
        lease consistent with OMB Circular A-11.
            (6) The Secretary may exchange or sell existing 
        aircraft and apply the exchange allowance or sale 
        proceeds in whole or in part toward the cost of leasing 
        replacement aircraft under this Section.
            (7) Lease arrangements authorized by this Section 
        may not commence until:
                    (A) The Secretary submits a report to the 
                congressional defense committees outlining the 
                plans for implementing the Pilot Program. The 
                Report shall describe the terms and conditions 
                of proposed contracts and the savings in 
                operations and support costs expected to be 
                derived from retiring older aircraft as 
                compared to the expected cost of leasing newer 
                replacement aircraft; and
                    (B) A period of not less than 30 calendar 
                days has elapsed after submitting the Report.
            (8) Not later than one year after the date on which 
        the first aircraft is delivered under this Pilot 
        Program, and yearly thereafter on the anniversary of 
        the first delivery, the Secretary shall submit a report 
        to the congressional defense committees describing the 
        status of the Pilot Program. The Report will be based 
        on at least six months of experience in operating the 
        Pilot Program.
            (9) No lease of operational support aircraft may be 
        entered into under this Section after September 30, 
        2004.
    (d) The authority granted to the Secretary of the Air Force 
by this Section is separate from and in addition to, and shall 
not be construed to impair or otherwise affect, the authority 
of the Secretary to procure transportation or enter into leases 
under a provision of law other than this section.
    (e) The authority provided under this section may be used 
to lease not more than a total of six (6) aircraft for the 
purposes of providing operational support.
    Sec. 8134. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act for ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Air Force'' is hereby reduced by $100,000,000 to 
reflect supplemental appropriations provided under Public Law 
106-31 for Readiness/Munitions.
    Sec. 8135. Section 8106(a) of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (titles I through VIII of the matter 
under section 101(b) of Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-111; 
10 U.S.C. 113 note), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``not later than June 30, 1997,''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``$1,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$500,000''.
    Sec. 8136. None of the funds provided for the Joint 
Warfighting Experimentation Program may be obligated until the 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff reports to the 
congressional defense committees on the role and participation 
of all unified and specified commands in the Joint Warfighting 
Experimentation Program.
    Sec. 8137. In addition to the amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available elsewhere in this Act for the 
Department of Defense, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of 
Defense: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall make a 
grant in the amount of $5,000,000 to the American Red Cross for 
Armed Forces Emergency Services.
    Sec. 8138. The Department of the Army is directed to 
conduct a live fire, side-by-side operational test of the air-
to-air Starstreak and air-to-air Stinger missiles from the AH-
64D Longbow helicopter. The operational test is to be completed 
utilizing funds provided for in this Act in addition to funding 
provided for this purpose in the Fiscal Year 1999 Defense 
Appropriations Act (P.L. 105-262): Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department is 
to ensure that the development, procurement or integration of 
any missile for use on the AH-64 or RAH-66 helicopters, as an 
air-to-air missile, is subject to a full and open competition 
which includes the conduct of a live-fire, side-by-side test as 
an element of the source selection criteria: Provided further, 
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition & Technology) 
will conduct an independent review of the need, and the merits 
of acquiring an air-to-air missile to provide self-protection 
for the AH-64 and RAH-66 from the threat of hostile forces. The 
Secretary is to provide his findings in a report to the 
congressional defense committees, no later than March 31, 2000.
    Sec. 8139. During the current fiscal year, under 
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Center 
of Excellence for Disaster Management and Humanitarian 
Assistance may also pay, or authorize payment for, the expenses 
of providing or facilitating education and training for 
appropriate military and civilian personnel of foreign 
countries in disaster management and humanitarian assistance: 
Provided, That not later than April 1, 2001, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report regarding the training of foreign personnel conducted 
under this authority during the preceding fiscal year for which 
expenses were paid under the section: Provided further, That 
the report shall specify the countries in which the training 
was conducted, the type of training conducted, and the foreign 
personnel trained.
    Sec. 8140. Of the funds appropriated in title II under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for the 
Office of the Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense for Gulf War Illnesses, up to $10,000,000 may be made 
available for carrying out the first-year actions under the 5-
year research plan outlined in the report entitled ``Department 
of Defense Strategy to Address Low-Level Exposures to Chemical 
Warfare Agents (CWAs)'', dated May 1999, that was submitted to 
committees of Congress pursuant to section 247(d) of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1999 (Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 1957).
    Sec. 8141. (a) The Department of Defense is authorized to 
enter into agreements with the Veterans Administration and 
federally-funded health agencies providing services to Native 
Hawaiians for the purpose of establishing a partnership similar 
to the Alaska Federal Health Care Partnership, in order to 
maximize Federal resources in the provision of health care 
services by federally-funded health agencies, applying 
telemedicine technologies. For the purpose of this partnership, 
Native Hawaiians shall have the same status as other Native 
Americans who are eligible for the health care services 
provided by the Indian Health Service.
    (b) The Department of Defense is authorized to develop a 
consultation policy, consistent with Executive Order 13084 
(issued May 14, 1998), with Native Hawaiians for the purpose of 
assuring maximum Native Hawaiian participation in the direction 
and administration of governmental services so as to render 
those services more responsive to the needs of the Native 
Hawaiian community.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Native 
Hawaiian'' means any individual who is a descendant of the 
aboriginal people who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised 
sovereignty in the area that now comprises the State of Hawaii.
    Sec. 8142. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be made available for 
reconstruction activities in the Republic of Serbia (excluding 
the province of Kosovo) as long as Slobodan Milosevic remains 
the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and 
Montenegro).
    Sec. 8143. In addition to the amounts provided elsewhere in 
this Act, the amount of $5,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', to be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, only for a grant to 
the United Service Organizations Incorporated, a federally 
chartered corporation under chapter 2201 of title 36, United 
States Code. The grant provided for by this section is in 
addition to any grant provided for under any other provision of 
law.
    Sec. 8144. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
to initiate a multiyear procurement contract for the Abrams 
M1A2 Tank Upgrade Program until 30 days after the Department of 
the Army has submitted a report to Congress detailing its 
efforts to reduce the costs of the tank upgrade program, to 
include the effects and potential savings that would result 
from any alternate fixed price or fixed quantity option 
contracts.
    Sec. 8145. The multi-year authority for the C-17 granted in 
this Act shall become effective once the Secretary of the Air 
Force certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
the average unit flyaway price of C-17 aircraft P121 through 
P180 purchased under a multi-year contract will be at least 
twenty-five (25) percent below the average unit flyaway price 
of the C-17 under the current 80 aircraft multiyear procurement 
program, with both prices calculated in fiscal year 1999 
dollars.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8146. (a) In addition to amounts appropriated 
elsewhere in this Act, $1,000,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
for the F-22 program: Provided, That these funds shall only be 
available for transfer to the appropriate F-22 program R-1 and 
P-1 line items of Titles IV and III of this Act for the 
purposes of F-22 program research, development, test and 
evaluation, and advance procurement: Provided further, That of 
this amount, not more than $277,100,000 may be transferred to 
the ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'' account only for 
advance procurement of F-22 aircraft: Provided further, That 
any funds transferred for F-22 advance procurement shall not be 
available for obligation until the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that all 1999 
Defense Acquisition Board exit criteria have been met: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
is in addition to any other transfer authority contained 
elsewhere in this Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Defense may use funds provided under this section 
and transferred to Titles IV and III of this Act to continue 
acquisition of F-22 test aircraft for which procurement funding 
has been previously provided.
    (c) The Secretary of the Air Force shall adjust the amounts 
of the limitations set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 217, Public Law 105-85 accordingly, and may modify any 
F-22 contracts to implement the requirements of this section.
    (d) Funds appropriated in this Act or any other prior Act 
for ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'' 
and ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'' may not be used for 
acquisition of more than a total of 17 flight-capable test 
vehicles for the F-22 aircraft program.
    (e) The Secretary of the Air Force may not award a full 
funding contract for low-rate initial production for the F-22 
aircraft program until--
            (1) the first flight of an F-22 aircraft 
        incorporating Block 3.0 software has been conducted;
            (2) the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees that all Defense 
        Acquisition Board exit criteria for the award of low-
        rate initial production of the aircraft have been met; 
        and
            (3) upon completion of the requirements under 
        (e)(1) and (e)(2) the Director of Operational Test and 
        Evaluation submits to the congressional defense 
        committees a report assessing the adequacy of testing 
        to date to measure and predict performance of F-22 
        avionics systems, stealth characteristics, and weapons 
        delivery systems.
    (f) The funds transferred under the authority provided 
within this section shall be merged with and shall be available 
for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation to which transferred.


                     (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 8147. (a) In addition to the amounts appropriated 
elsewhere in this Act, $300,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
F-22 program termination liability or for other F-22 program 
contractual requirements in lieu of termination liability 
obligations: Provided, That these funds shall only be available 
for transfer to the appropriate F-22 program R-1 and P-1 line 
items of Titles IV and III of this Act for the purposes 
specified in this section: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this section is in addition to any other 
transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act: Provided 
further, That these funds shall not be available for 
expenditure until October 1, 2000.
    (b) The funds transferred under the authority provided 
within this section shall be merged with and shall be available 
for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 8148. In addition to the amounts provided elsewhere in 
this Act, the amount of $5,500,000 is hereby appropriated for 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', to be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, only for a grant to 
the High Desert Partnership in Academic Excellence Foundation, 
Inc., for the purpose of developing, implementing, and 
evaluating a standards and performance based academic model at 
schools administered by the Department of Defense Education 
Activity.
    Sec. 8149. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may 
be used for the payment of a fine or penalty that is imposed 
against the Department of Defense or a military department 
arising from an environmental violation at a military 
installation or facility unless the payment of the fine or 
penalty has been specifically authorized by law. For purposes 
of this section, expenditure of funds to carry out a 
supplemental environmental project that is required to be 
carried out as part of such a penalty shall be considered to be 
a payment of the penalty.
    Sec. 8150. Section 8145 of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262; 112 Stat. 2340), 
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, and for such additional environmental 
restoration activities at such former base as may be 
accomplished within such total amount''.
    Sec. 8151. Of the funds made available in this Act under 
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', up to 
$5,000,000 shall be available to provide assistance, by grant 
or otherwise, to public school systems that have unusually high 
concentrations of special needs military dependents enrolled: 
Provided, That in selecting school systems to receive such 
assistance, special consideration shall be given to school 
systems in states that are considered overseas assignments.
    Sec. 8152. Funds appropriated by the paragraph under the 
heading ``MILITARY CONSTRUCTION TRANSFER FUNDS'' in the 1999 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31; 
113 Stat. 85) may be transferred to military construction 
accounts, as authorized by that paragraph, and shall be merged 
with and shall be available for the same purposes and for the 
same time period as the account to which transferred.
    Sec. 8153. Section 127 of the Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-307; 108 Stat. 1666) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (B)(1), by striking ``an amount'' 
        and all that follows and inserting ``$3,400,000.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Completion of Conveyance by End of Fiscal Year 
2000.--The Secretary shall endeavor to complete any conveyance 
under this section not later than September 30, 2000.''.
    Sec. 8154. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Army'' shall be available for expenses 
associated with characterization and remediation activities at 
the Massachusetts Military Reservation, Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts, resulting from environmental problems pertaining 
to use of Camp Edwards as a training range and impact area and 
any administrative orders issued by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency to address those problems.
    Sec. 8155. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Air Force may convey at 
no cost to the Air Force, without consideration, to Indian 
tribes located in the States of North Dakota, South Dakota, 
Montana, and Minnesota relocatable military housing units 
located at Grand Forks Air Force Base and Minot Air Force Base 
that are excess to the needs of the Air Force.
    (b) Processing of Requests.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall convey, at no cost to the Air Force, military housing 
units under subsection (a) in accordance with the request for 
such units that are submitted to the Secretary by the Operation 
Walking Shield Program on behalf of Indian tribes located in 
the States of North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, and 
Minnesota.
    (c) The Operation Walking Shield program shall resolve any 
conflicts among request of Indian tribes for housing units 
under subsection (a) before submitting requests to the 
Secretary of the Air Force under paragraph (b).
    (d) Indian Tribe Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Indian tribe'' means any recognized Indian tribe included on 
the current list published by the Secretary of the Interior 
under Section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe Act 
of 1994 (Public Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; U.S.C. 479a-1).
    Sec. 8156. Of the amounts appropriated in the Act under the 
heading ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
Wide'', $45,000,000 shall be available for the purpose of 
adjusting the cost-share of the parties under the Agreement 
between the Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defence 
of Israel for the Arrow Deployability Program.
    Sec. 8157. The Secretary of Defense shall fully identify 
and determine the validity of healthcare contract additional 
liabilities, requests for equitable adjustment, and claims for 
unanticipated healthcare contract costs: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish an equitable and timely 
process for the adjudication of claims, and recognize actual 
liabilities during the Department's planning, programming and 
budgeting process, including fiscal year 2000 supplemental 
appropriation requests if appropriate: Provided further, That 
not later than December 1, 1999, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit a report to the congressional defense committees on the 
scope and extent of healthcare contract claims, and on the 
action taken to implement the provisions of this section: 
Provided further, That nothing in this section should be 
construed as congressional direction to liquidate or pay any 
claims that otherwise would not have been adjudicated in favor 
of the claimant.
    Sec. 8158. Of the funds appropriated in title II of this 
Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $8,000,000 shall be available only for a community 
retraining, reinvestment, and manufacturing initiative to be 
conducted by an academic consortia with existing programs in 
manufacturing and retraining: Provided, That the $8,000,000 
made available in this section shall be obligated by grant not 
later than fifteen days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8159. (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the management of the chemical weapons 
demilitarization program.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description and assessment of the current 
        management structure of the chemical weapons 
        demilitarization program, including the management of 
        the assembled chemical weapons assessment (ACWA) 
        program.
            (2) An assessment of the feasibility and 
        advisability for the management of the chemical weapons 
        demilitarization program of the assignment of a panel 
        for oversight of the management of program, which panel 
        would--
                    (A) consist of officials of the Department 
                of Defense and of other departments and 
                agencies of the Federal Government having an 
                interest in the safe and timely 
                demilitarization of chemical weapons; and
                    (B) prepare annual reports on the schedule, 
                cost, and effectiveness of the program.
            (3) Any other matters relating to the management of 
        the chemical weapons demilitarization program, 
        including the improvement of the management of the 
        program, that the Secretary considers appropriate.
    Sec. 8160. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
military construction projects for which funds were 
appropriated in Public Law 106-52 are hereby authorized.
    Sec. 8161. The Secretary of Defense may treat the opening 
of the National D-Day Museum in New Orleans, Louisiana, as an 
official event of the Department of Defense for the purposes of 
the provision of support for ceremonies and activities related 
to that opening.
    Sec. 8162. Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial. (a) Findings.--
Congress finds that--
            (1) the people of the United States feel a deep 
        debt of gratitude to Dwight D. Eisenhower, who served 
        as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe in 
        World War II and subsequently as 34th President of the 
        United States; and
            (2) an appropriate permanent memorial to Dwight D. 
        Eisenhower should be created to perpetuate his memory 
        and his contributions to the United States.
    (b) Commission.--There is established a commission to be 
known as the ``Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission'' 
(referred to in this section as the ``Commission'').
    (c) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of--
            (1) 4 persons appointed by the President, not more 
        than two of whom may be members of the same political 
        party;
            (2) 4 Members of the Senate appointed by the 
        President Pro Tempore of the Senate in consultation 
        with the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the 
        Senate, of which not more than two appointees may be 
        members of the same political party; and
            (3) 4 Members of the House of Representatives 
        appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives in consultation with the Majority 
        Leader and Minority Leader of the House, of which not 
        more than two appointees may be members of the same 
        political party.
    (d) Chair and Vice Chair.--The members of the Commission 
shall select a Chair and Vice Chair of the Commission. The 
Chair and Vice Chair shall not be members of the same political 
party.
    (e) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
affect its powers if a quorum is present, but shall be filled 
in the same manner as the original appointment.
    (f) Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--Not later than 45 days after 
        the date on which a majority of the members of the 
        Commission have been appointed, the Commission shall 
        hold its first meeting.
            (2) Subsequent meetings.--The Commission shall meet 
        at the call of the Chair.
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number of members may 
hold hearings.
    (h) No Compensation.--A member of the Commission shall 
serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses 
incurred in carrying out the duties of the Commission.
    (i) Duties.--The Commission shall consider and formulate 
plans for such a permanent memorial to Dwight D. Eisenhower, 
including its nature, design, construction, and location.
    (j) Powers.--The Commission may--
            (1) make such expenditures for services and 
        materials for the purpose of carrying out this section 
        as the Commission considers advisable from funds 
        appropriated or received as gifts for that purpose;
            (2) accept gifts to be used in carrying out this 
        section or to be used in connection with the 
        construction or other expenses of the memorial; and
            (3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for 
        personal services and otherwise, and do such other 
        things as are necessary to carry out this section.
    (k) Reports.--The Commission shall--
            (1) report the plans under subsection (i), together 
        with recommendations, to the President and Congress at 
        the earliest practicable date; and
            (2) in the interim, make annual reports on its 
        progress to the President and Congress.
    (l) Applicability of Other Laws.--The Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App) shall not apply to the Commission.
    (m) Appropriation of Funds.--In addition to amounts 
provided elsewhere in this Act, there is appropriated to the 
Commission $300,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 8163. (a) The Secretary of the Air Force may accept 
contributions from the State of New York for the project at 
Rome Research Site, Rome, New York authorized in section 
2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2000, for purposes of carrying out military construction 
relating to the consolidation of Air Force Research Laboratory 
facilities at the Rome Research Site, Rome, New York. Any 
contributions received from the State of New York shall be in 
addition to the funds authorized for the project in section 
2304(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2000.
    (b) The item for ``New York, Rome Research Site'', in the 
table in Section 2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2000 is amended by striking ``12,800,000'' 
and inserting in lieu thereof ``25,800,000''.
    Sec. 8164. Chapter 1 of title I of division B of the 
Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-553) is amended 
in the paragraph under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'' by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``: Provided further, That an amount not to exceed 
$75,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading shall 
remain available without fiscal year limitation after transfer 
from this account: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense is authorized 
to transfer the funds referred to in the immediately preceding 
proviso to other activities of the Federal Government pursuant 
to section 1535 of title 31, United States Code (referred to as 
the `Economy Act')''.
    Sec. 8165. Review of Low Density, High Demand Assets. (a) 
Report to Congressional Defense Committees.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report assessing the requirements, plans, and resources needed 
to maintain, update, modernize, restore, and expand the 
Department of Defense fleet of specialized aircraft and related 
equipment commonly described as ``Low Density, High Demand 
Assets''. The report shall be submitted no later than May 15, 
2000 and shall be submitted in both classified and unclassified 
versions.
    (b) Assets To Be Covered.--The report shall cover the 
following aircraft and equipment:
            (1) Electronic warfare aircraft and specialized 
        jamming equipment.
            (2) Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        (ISR) platforms and major systems, including--
                    (A) U-2 aircraft;
                    (B) AWACS aircraft;
                    (C) JSTARS aircraft;
                    (D) RIVET JOINT aircraft;
                    (E) tactical unmanned aerial vehicles 
                (UAVs);
                    (F) interoperable/secure communications;
                    (G) command and control systems;
                    (H) new data links; and
                    (I) data fusion capability.
            (3) Strategic and tactical airlift aircraft.
            (4) Aerial refueling aircraft.
            (5) Strategic bomber aircraft.
    (c) Report Elements.--The report shall include for each 
asset specified in subsection (b) the following:
            (1) A description of--
                    (A) inventory, age, capabilities, current 
                deficiencies, usage rates, current and 
                remaining service life, and expected rates of 
                fatigue;
                    (B) ability to provide logistical support;
                    (C) planned replacement dates; and
                    (D) number of sorties, percentage of 
                inventory used, and overall effectiveness in 
                Operation Desert Fox and in Operation Allied 
                Force.
            (2) A comparison of the Department's plans and 
        resource requirements to update, replace, modernize, or 
        restore the asset as contained in the Future Years 
        Defense Plan for fiscal year 2000 with those plans and 
        resource requirements for that asset as contained in 
        the Future Years Defense Plan for fiscal year 2001, and 
        an explanation for any significant difference in those 
        plans and requirements.
            (3) A detailed listing, by fiscal year, of--
                    (A) the total amount required to fulfill 
                mission needs statements and documented 
                inventory objectives for the asset in order to 
                improve critical warfighting capabilities over 
                the next 10 years; and
                    (B) of that total amount for each such 
                year, the portion (stated as an amount and as a 
                percentage) that is not included in the fiscal 
                year 2001 Future Years Defense Plan.
    Sec. 8166. Of the funds appropriated in Title II of this 
Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$5,000,000 shall be available only for a grant to the Chicago 
Public Schools for conversion and expansion of the former 
Eighth Regiment National Guard Armory (Bronzeville).
    Sec. 8167. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$10,000,000, is hereby appropriated and authorized for 
``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', to remain 
available until September 30, 2004, for construction, and, 
contributions therefor, of an Army Aviation Support Facility at 
West Bend, Wisconsin.
    Sec. 8168. (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to 
evaluate and demonstrate methods for more efficient operation 
of military installations through improved capital asset 
management and greater reliance on the public or private sector 
for less-costly base support services, where available.
    (b) Authority.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force may 
carry out at Brooks Air Force Base, Texas, a demonstration 
project to be known as the ``Base Efficiency Project'' to 
improve mission effectiveness and reduce the cost of providing 
quality installation support at Brooks Air Force Base.
    (2) The Secretary may carry out the Project in consultation 
with the Community to the extent the Secretary determines such 
consultation is necessary and appropriate.
    (3) The authority provided in this section is in addition 
to any other authority vested in or delegated to the Secretary, 
and the Secretary may exercise any authority or combination of 
authorities provided under this section or elsewhere to carry 
out the purposes of the Project.
    (c) Efficient Practices.--(1) The Secretary may convert 
services at or for the benefit of the Base from accomplishment 
by military personnel or by Department civilian employees 
(appropriated fund or non-appropriated fund), to services 
performed by contract or provided as consideration for the 
lease, sale, or other conveyance or transfer of property.
    (2) Notwithstanding section 2462 of title 10, United States 
Code, a contract for services may be awarded based on ``best 
value'' if the Secretary determines that the award will advance 
the purposes of a joint activity conducted under the Project 
and is in the best interest of the Department.
    (3) Notwithstanding that such services are generally funded 
by local and State taxes and provided without specific charge 
to the public at large, the Secretary may contract for public 
services at or for the benefit of the Base in exchange for such 
consideration, if any, the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate.
    (4)(A) The Secretary may conduct joint activities with the 
Community, the State, and any private parties or entities on or 
for the benefit of the Base.
    (B) Payments or reimbursements received from participants 
for their share of direct and indirect costs of joint 
activities, including the costs of providing, operating, and 
maintaining facilities, shall be in an amount and type 
determined to be adequate and appropriate by the Secretary.
    (C) Such payments or reimbursements received by the 
Department shall be deposited into the Project Fund.
    (d) Lease Authority.--(1) The Secretary may lease real or 
personal property located on the Base and not required at other 
Air Force installations to any lesseeupon such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate and in the interest 
of the United States, if the Secretary determines that the lease would 
facilitate the purposes of the Project.
    (2) Consideration for a lease under this subsection shall 
be determined in accordance with subsection (g).
    (3) A lease under this subsection--
            (A) may be for such period as the Secretary 
        determines is necessary to accomplish the goals of the 
        Project; and
            (B) may give the lessee the first right to purchase 
        the property at fair market value if the lease is 
        terminated to allow the United States to sell the 
        property under any other provision of law.
    (4)(A) The interest of a lessee of property leased under 
this subsection may be taxed by the State or the Community.
    (B) A lease under this subsection shall provide that, if 
and to the extent that the leased property is later made 
taxable by State governments or local governments under Federal 
law, the lease shall be renegotiated.
    (5) The Department may furnish a lessee with utilities, 
custodial services, and other base operation, maintenance, or 
support services performed by Department civilian or contract 
employees, in exchange for such consideration, payment, or 
reimbursement as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (6) All amounts received from leases under this subsection 
shall be deposited into the Project Fund.
    (7) A lease under this subsection shall not be subject to 
the following provisions of law:
            (A) Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, 
        other than subsection (b)(1) of that section.
            (B) Section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 
        U.S.C. 303b).
            (C) The Federal Property and Administrative 
        Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.).
    (e) Property Disposal.--(1) The Secretary may sell or 
otherwise convey or transfer real and personal property located 
at the Base to the Community or to another public or private 
party during the Project, upon such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the Project.
    (2) Consideration for a sale or other conveyance or 
transfer of property under this subsection shall be determined 
in accordance with subsection (g).
    (3) The sale or other conveyance or transfer of property 
under this subsection shall not be subject to the following 
provisions of law:
            (A) Section 2693 of title 10, United States Code.
            (B) The Federal Property and Administrative 
        Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.).
    (4) Cash payments received as consideration for the sale or 
other conveyance or transfer of property under this subsection 
shall be deposited into the Project Fund.
    (f) Leaseback of Property Leased or Disposed.--(1) The 
Secretary may lease, sell, or otherwise convey or transfer real 
property at the Base under subsections (b) and (e), as 
applicable, which will be retained for use by the Department or 
by another military department or other Federal agency, if the 
lessee, purchaser, or other grantee or transferee of the 
property agrees to enter into a leaseback to the Department in 
connection with the lease, sale, or other conveyance or 
transfer of one or more portions or all of the property leased, 
sold, or otherwise conveyed or transferred, as applicable.
    (2) A leaseback of real property under this subsection 
shall be an operating lease for no more than 20 years unless 
the Secretary of the Air Force determines that a longer term is 
appropriate.
    (3)(A) Consideration, if any, for real property leased 
under a leaseback entered into under this subsection shall be 
in such form and amount as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (B) The Secretary may use funds in the Project Fund or 
other funds appropriated or otherwise available to the 
Department for use at the Base for payment of any such cash 
rent.
    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department or other military department or other Federal agency 
using the real property leased under a leaseback entered into 
under this subsection may construct and erect facilities on or 
otherwise improve the leased property using funds appropriated 
or otherwise available to the Department or other military 
department or other Federal agency for such purpose.
    (g) Consideration.--(1) The Secretary shall determine the 
nature, value, and adequacy of consideration required or 
offered in exchange for a lease, sale, or other conveyance or 
transfer of real or personal property or for other actions 
taken under the Project.
    (2) Consideration may be in cash or in-kind or any 
combination thereof. In-kind consideration may include the 
following:
            (A) Real property.
            (B) Personal property.
            (C) Goods or services, including operation, 
        maintenance, protection, repair, or restoration 
        (including environmental restoration) of any property 
        or facilities (including non-appropriated fund 
        facilities).
            (D) Base operating support services.
            (E) Improvement of Department facilities.
            (F) Provision of facilities, including office, 
        storage, or other usable space, for use by the 
        Department on or off the Base.
            (G) Public services.
    (3) Consideration may not be for less than the fair market 
value.
    (h) Project Fund.--(1) There is established on the books of 
the Treasury a fund to be known as the ``Base Efficiency 
Project Fund'' into which all cash rents, proceeds, payments, 
reimbursements, and other amounts from leases, sales, or other 
conveyances or transfers, joint activities, and all other 
actions taken under the Project shall be deposited. All amounts 
deposited into the Project Fund are without fiscal year 
limitation.
    (2) Amounts in the Project Fund may be used only for 
operation, base operating support services, maintenance, 
repair, or improvement of Department facilities, payment of 
consideration for acquisitions of interests in real property 
(including payment of rentals for leasebacks), and 
environmental protection or restoration, in addition to or in 
combination with other amounts appropriated for these purposes.
    (3) Subject to generally prescribed financial management 
regulations, the Secretary shall establish the structure of the 
Project Fund and such administrative policies and procedures as 
the Secretary considers necessary to account for and control 
deposits into and disbursements from the Project Fund 
effectively.
    (4) All amounts in the Project Fund shall be available for 
use for the purposes authorized in paragraph (2) at the Base.
    (i) Federal Agencies.--(1)(A) Any Federal agency, its 
contractors, or its grantees shall pay rent, in cash or 
services, for the use of facilities or property at the Base, in 
an amount and type determined to be adequate by the Secretary.
    (B) Such rent shall generally be the fair market rental of 
the property provided, but in any case shall be sufficient to 
compensate the Base for the direct and overhead costs incurred 
by the Base due to the presence of the tenant agency on the 
Base.
    (2) Transfers of real or personal property at the Base to 
other Federal agencies shall be at fair market value 
consideration. Such consideration may be paid in cash, by 
appropriation transfer, or in property, goods, or services.
    (3) Amounts received from other Federal agencies, their 
contractors, or grantees, including any amounts paid by 
appropriation transfer, shall be deposited in the Project Fund.
    (j) Reports to Congress.--(1) Section 2662 of title 10, 
United States Code, shall not apply to transactions at the Base 
during the Project.
    (2)(A) Not later than March 1 each year, the Secretary 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on any transactions at the Base during the preceding fiscal 
year that would be subject to such section 2662.
    (B) The report shall include a detailed cost analysis of 
the financial savings and gains realized through joint 
activities and other actions under the Project authorized by 
this section and a description of the status of the Project.
    (k) Limitation.--None of the authorities in this section 
shall create any legal rights in any person or entity except 
rights embodied in leases, deeds, or contracts.
    (l) Expiration of Authority.--The authority to enter into a 
lease, deed, permit, license, contract, or other agreement 
under this section shall expire on September 30, 2004.
    (m) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Project'' means the Base Efficiency 
        Project authorized by this section.
            (2) The term ``Base'' means Brooks Air Force Base, 
        Texas.
            (3) The term ``Community'' means the City of San 
        Antonio, Texas.
            (4) The term ``Department'' means the Department of 
        the Air Force.
            (5) The term ``facility'' means a building, 
        structure, or other improvement to real property 
        (except a military family housing unit as that term is 
        used in subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code).
            (6) The term ``joint activity'' means an activity 
        conducted on or for the benefit of the Base by the 
        Department, jointly with the Community, the State, or 
        any private entity, or any combination thereof.
            (7) The term ``Project Fund'' means the Base 
        Efficiency Project Fund established by subsection (h).
            (8) The term ``public services'' means public 
        services (except public schools, fire protection, 
andpolice protection) that are funded by local and State taxes and 
provided without specific charge to the public at large.
            (9) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        the Air Force or the Secretary's designee, who shall be 
        a civilian official of the Department appointed by the 
        President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
            (10) The term ``State'' means the State of Texas.
    (n) The authorities provided in this section shall not take 
effect until June 15, 2000.
    Sec. 8169. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$400,000,000, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $115,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $150,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $20,000,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $115,000,000:
Provided, That of the unobligated amounts made available in 
Section 2008 of title II, chapter 3 of Public Law 106-31, 
$400,000,000 shall be made available only for depot level 
maintenance and repair, as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $115,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $150,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $20,000,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $115,000,000.
    Sec. 8170. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$550,000,000, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $170,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $170,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $40,000,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $170,000,000:
Provided, That of the unobligated amounts made available in 
Section 2007 of title II, chapter 3 of Public Law 106-31, 
$550,000,000 shall be made available only for spare and repair 
parts and associated logistical support necessary for the 
maintenance of weapons systems and equipment, as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $170,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $170,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $40,000,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $170,000,000.
    Sec. 8171. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$100,000,000, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $60,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $20,000,000; 
        and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $20,000,000:
Provided, That of the unobligated amounts made available in 
Section 2011 of title II, chapter 3 of Public Law 106-31, 
$100,000,000 shall be made available only for base operations 
support costs at Department of Defense facilities, as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $60,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $20,000,000; 
        and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $20,000,000.
    Sec. 8172. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by 
$356,400,000, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', $50,900,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine 
        Corps'', $113,500,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', $20,800,000; 
        and
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force'', 
        $171,200,000:
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall allocate these 
reductions to reflect savings available as a result of the 
increased procurement of munitions resulting from funds made 
available in title II, chapter 3 of Public Law 106-31.
    Sec. 8173. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, amounts otherwise provided by this Act in title II for the 
following accounts and activities are reduced by the following 
amounts:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
        $1,572,947,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
        $1,874,598,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $228,709,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $1,707,150,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
        $939,341,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', 
        $120,072,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', 
        $77,598,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps 
        Reserve'', $11,346,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve'', 
        $145,393,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $258,115,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', 
        $264,731,000;
                    in all: $7,200,000,000.
    (b) In addition to amounts appropriated elsewhere in this 
Act there are hereby appropriated the following amounts for the 
following accounts:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
        $1,572,947,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
        $1,874,598,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
        $228,709,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
        $1,707,150,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
        $939,341,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', 
        $120,072,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', 
        $77,598,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps 
        Reserve'', $11,346,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve'', 
        $145,393,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $258,115,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', 
        $264,731,000;
                    in all; $7,200,000,000:
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for $7,200,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such 
Act.
    Sec. 8174. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used for the American Heritage 
Rivers Initiative.
    Sec. 8175. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense shall make progress payments based on 
progress no less than 12 days after receiving a valid billing 
and the Department of Defense shall make progress payments 
based on cost no less than 19 days after receiving a valid 
billing.
    Sec. 8176. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense shall make adjustments in payment 
procedures and policies to ensure that payments are made no 
less than 29 days after receipt of a proper invoice.

                                TITLE IX

         WAIVER OF CERTAIN SANCTIONS AGAINST INDIA AND PAKISTAN

    (a) Waiver Authority.--Except as provided in subsections 
(b) and (c) of this section, the President may waive, with 
respect to India and Pakistan, the application of any sanction 
contained in section 101 or 102 of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2799aa or 22 U.S.C. 2799aa-1), section 2(b)(4) of 
the Export Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(4)), or 
section 620E(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, (22 U.S.C. 2375(e)).
    (b) Exception.--The authority to waive the application of a 
sanction or prohibition (or portion thereof) under subsection 
(a) shall not apply with respect to a sanction or prohibition 
contained in subparagraph (B), (C), or (G) of section 102(b)(2) 
of the Arms Export Control Act, unless the President 
determines, and so certifies to Congress, that the application 
of the restriction would not be in the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (c) Termination of Waiver.--The President may not exercise 
the authority of subsection (a), and any waiver previously 
issued under subsection (a) shall cease to apply, with respect 
to India or Pakistan, if that country detonates a nuclear 
explosive device after the date of enactment of this act or 
otherwise takes such action which would cause the President to 
report pursuant to section 102(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control 
Act.
    (d) Targeted Sanctions.--
            (1) Sense of the congress.--
                    (A) It is the sense of the Congress that 
                the broad application of export controls to 
                nearly 300 Indian and Pakistani entities is 
                inconsistent with the specific national 
                security interests of the United States and 
                that this control list requires refinement; and
                    (B) export controls should be applied only 
                to those Indian and Pakistani entities that 
                make direct and material contributions to 
                weapons of mass destruction and missile 
                programs and only to those items that can 
                contribute to such programs.
            (2) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the President 
        shall submit both a classified and unclassified report 
        to the appropriate congressional committees listing 
        those Indian and Pakistani entities whose activities 
        contribute to missile programs or weapons of mass 
        destruction programs.
    (e) Congressional Notification.--The issuance of a license 
for export of a defense article, defense service, or technology 
under the authority of this section shall be subject to the 
same requirements as are applicable to the export of items 
described in section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2776(c)), including the transmittal of information and 
the application of congressional review procedures.
    (f) Repeal.--The India-Pakistan Relief Act (title IX of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in 
section 101(a) of Public Law 105-277) is repealed effective 
October 21, 1999.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.
        And the Senate agree to the same.

                                   Jerry Lewis,
                                   C.W. Bill Young,
                                   Joe Skeen,
                                   David L. Hobson,
                                   Henry Bonilla,
                                   George R. Nethercutt, Jr.,
                                   Ernest J. Istook, Jr.,
                                   Randy ``Duke'' Cunningham,
                                   Jay Dickey,
                                   Rodney P. Frelinghuysen,
                                   John P. Murtha,
                                   Norman D. Dicks,
                                   Martin Olav Sabo,
                                   Julian C. Dixon,
                                   Peter J. Visclosky,
                                   James P. Moran,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Ted Stevens,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                   Arlen Specter,
                                   Pete V. Domenici,
                                   Christopher S. Bond,
                                   Mitch McConnell,
                                   Richard C. Shelby,
                                   Judd Gregg,
                                   Kay Bailey Hutchison,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Ernest F. Hollings,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                   Patrick J. Leahy,
                                   Frank R. Lautenberg,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Richard J. Durbin,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.

                      JOINT EXPLANATORY STATEMENT

      The managers on the part of the House and the Senate at 
the conference on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses on 
the amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 2561), making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, submit 
the following joint statement to the House and the Senate in 
explanation of the effect of the action agreed upon by the 
managers and recommended in the accompanying conference report.
      The conference agreement on the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000, incorporates some of the provisions 
of both the House and Senate versions of the bill. The language 
and allocations set forth in House Report 106-244 and Senate 
Report 106-53 should be complied with unless specifically 
addressed in the accompanying bill and statement of the 
managers to the contrary.
      Senate Amendment: The Senate deleted the entire House 
bill after the enacting clause and inserted the Senate bill. 
The conference agreement includes a revised bill.

              Definition of Program, Project, and Activity

      The conferees agree that for the purposes of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 
99-177) as amended by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-119) and by 
the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508), the 
term program, project, and activity for appropriations 
contained in this Act shall be defined as the most specific 
level of budget items identified in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000, the accompanying House and Senate 
Committee reports, the conference report and accompanying joint 
explanatory statement of the managers of the Committee of 
Conference, the related classified annexes and reports, and the 
P-1 and R-1 budget justification documents as subsequently 
modified by Congressional action. The following exception to 
the above definition shall apply:
      For the Military Personnel and the Operation and 
Maintenance accounts, the term ``program, project, and 
activity'' is defined as the appropriations accounts contained 
in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act. At the time 
the President submits his budget for fiscal year 2001, the 
conferees direct the Department of Defense to transmit to the 
congressional defense committees budget justification documents 
to be known as the ``M-1'' and ``O-1'' which shall identify, at 
the budget activity, activity group, and subactivity group 
level, the amounts requested by the President to be 
appropriated to the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance in any budget request, or amended budget request, 
for fiscal year 2001.

                  congressional special interest items

      The conferees direct that projects for which funds are 
provided as indicated in the tables or paragraphs of the 
Conference Report in any appropriation account are special 
interest items for the purpose of preparation of the DD Form 
1414. The conferees also direct that the funding adjustments 
outlined in the tables shall be provided only for the specific 
purposes outlined in the table.

                      Title I--Military Personnel

      The conferees agree to the following amounts for the 
Military Personnel accounts:

                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    Budget       House      Senate    Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Active Personnel:
  Army..........................................................  22,006,632  21,475,732  22,041,094  22,006,361
  Navy..........................................................  17,207,481  16,737,072  17,236,001  17,258,823
  Marine Corps..................................................   6,544,682   6,353,622   6,562,336   6,555,403
  Air Force.....................................................  17,899,685  17,565,811  17,873,759  17,861,803
Reserve Personnel:
  Army..........................................................   2,270,964   2,235,055   2,278,696   2,289,996
  Navy..........................................................   1,446,339   1,425,210   1,450,788   1,473,388
  Marine Corps..................................................     409,189     403,822     410,650     412,650
  Air Force.....................................................     881,170     872,978     884,794     892,594
National Guard Personnel:
  Army..........................................................   3,570,639   3,486,427   3,622,479   3,610,479
  Navy..........................................................   1,486,512   1,456,248   1,494,496   1,533,196
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Total, Military Personnel.................................  73,723,293  72,011,977  73,855,093  73,894,693
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   pay increase and retirement reform

      The conferees recommend an increase of $165,000,000 to 
the Active, Reserve, and Guard Military Personnel accounts to 
provide for a 4.8 percent military pay raise, effective January 
1, 2000. This is an increase of 0.4 percent over the budget 
request of 4.4 percent. In addition, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 revised the budget's 
legislative proposal to repeal the Redux retirement system 
which results in savings to the personnel accounts. 
Accordingly, the conferees recommend a total reduction of 
$136,000,000 to the Active, Reserve, and Guard Military 
Personnel accounts for modifications to the 1986 Military 
Retirement Reform Act.

                    personnel underexecution savings

      The conferees recommend a total reduction of $219,000,000 
to the Active Military Personnel accounts due to lower than 
budgeted fiscal year 1999 end strengths, and differences in the 
actual grade mix of officers and enlisted recommended in the 
budget request. The General Accounting Office estimates that 
the active components will have approximately 9,700 fewer 
personnel on board to begin fiscal year 2000, and as a result, 
the fiscal year 2000 pay and allowances requirements for 
personnel are incorrect and the budgets overstated.

                        force structure changes

      The conferees recommend a total of $103,600,000 in the 
Military Personnel and Operation and Maintenance accounts for 
force structure that was not included in the budget request, as 
follows:

                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      MILPERS    O&M     Proc.    Total
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navy AOE-1 replenishment ships......    5,000  .......  .......    5,000
Marine Corps Security Guards........    6,600    4,100  .......   10,700
Air Force B-52 aircraft.............    3,100   25,000    8,900   37,000
Air Force Reserve Test Support          2,300  .......  .......    2,300
 Mission............................
Army National Guard civilian          .......   20,000  .......   20,000
 technicians........................
Army National Guard RAID Teams AGR's    7,000  .......  .......    7,000
Army National Guard AGR's...........   15,000  .......  .......   15,000
Air National Guard RAID Teams AGR's.    4,600  .......  .......    4,600
Air National Guard C-130 restoration      500    1,500  .......    2,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        dfas salary misalignment

      At the request of the Air Force, the conferees recommend 
realigning $39,200,000 from ``Military Personnel, Air Force'' 
to ``National Guard Personnel, Air Force'' due to a Defense 
Finance and Accounting Service error involving Air Force 
personnel salaries.

                   basic allowance for housing reform

      The conferees recommend an increase of $100,000,000 
across the Active Military Personnel accounts for Basic 
Allowance for Housing (BAH) reform. The additional funds will 
allow the Department to complete the transition phase of BAH 
reform, as directed by the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2000.

                      army contingency operations

      The conferees recommend a reduction of $80,000,000 to 
``Military Personnel, Army'' to reflect the reduced U.S. troop 
levels in Bosnia, and the associated military personnel pay and 
allowance costs requested in the fiscal year 2000 budget 
request.

                        recruiting and retention

      The conferees recommend an additional $399,200,000 in the 
Military Personnel and Operation and Maintenance accounts to 
support the Department's recruiting, advertising, and retention 
programs. The conferees are aware that some of the Services are 
experiencing difficulty in meeting accession goals and that 
first and second term retention rates, along with pilot 
retention rates, are of major concern. Therefore, the conferees 
recommend additional funds to improve the Services' recruiting 
and retention efforts in the following programs:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

Enlistment Bonuses............................................   $88,200
Selective Reenlistment Bonuses................................    74,000
Student Loan Repayment Program................................     4,000
Navy College Fund.............................................     5,000
Recruiting and Advertising....................................    78,000
Recruiting Support............................................    27,000
College First Program.........................................     7,000
Tuition Assistance............................................     6,000
Aviation Continuation Pay.....................................   110,000

                           ACTIVE END STRENGTH
                           [Fiscal year 2000]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Conference
                                        Budget    Conference  vs. Budget
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army................................     480,000     480,000  ..........
Navy................................     371,781     372,037        +256
Marine Corps........................     172,148     172,518        +370
Air Force...........................     360,877     360,877  ..........
                                     -----------------------------------
    Total, Active Personnel.........   1,384,806   1,385,432        +626
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                              
                                                              
                    adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Pay and Allowances of Enlisted Personnel:
        1100 Special Pays/Enlistment Bonuses..................    35,000
        1100 Special Pays/Selective Reenlistment Bonuses......    44,000
  Undistributed:
        2770 Personnel Underexecution.........................   -35,000
        2790 4.8 Percent Pay Raise............................    49,462
        2805 Retirement Reform................................   -46,000
        2805 Basic Allowance for Housing Reform...............    32,267
        2810 Contingency Operations Underexecution............   -80,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Pay and Allowances of Enlisted Personnel:
    3900  Special Pays/Enlistment Bonuses.....................    30,000
    3900  Special Pays/Special Duty Assignment Pay............     3,000
  Budget Activity 6: Other Military Personnel Costs:
    5350  Education Benefits/Navy College Fund................     5,000
  Undistributed:
    5580  Personnel Underexection.............................   -38,000
    5595  4.8 percent Pay Raise...............................    37,520
    5605  Retirement Reform...................................   -33,000
    5610  Basic Allowance for Housing Reform..................    31,822
    5615  AOE-1 Replenishment Ships...........................     5,000
    5620  Aviation Continuation Pay...........................    10,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Pay and Allowances of Enlisted Personnel:
    6700  Special Pays/Selective Reenlistment Bonuses.........    10,000
  Undistributed:
    8240  4.8 Percent Pay Raise...............................    15,454
    8242  Increase in Marine Security Guards..................     6,600
    8250  Retirement Reform...................................   -14,000
    8255  Basic Allowance for Housing Reform..................     8,667
    8260  Marine Corps Execution Repricing....................   -16,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Pay and Allowances of Enlisted Personnel:
    9350  Special Pays/Selective Reenlistment Bonuses.........    25,000
  Undistributed:
    11020  Personnel Underexecution...........................  -146,000
    11030  B-52 Force Structure...............................     3,100
    11040  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..............................    40,974
    11070  Retirement Reform..................................   -37,000
    11080  Basic Allowance for Housing Reform.................    27,244
    11090  Aviation Continuation Pay..........................   100,000
    11100  TERA Rephasing.....................................   -12,000
    11110  DFAS Salary Misalignment...........................   -39,200

                   National Guard and Reserve Forces

      The conferees agree to provide $10,212,303,000 in Reserve 
Personnel appropriations, $10,752,172,000 in Operation and 
Maintenance appropriations, and $150,000,000 in the National 
Guard and Reserve Equipment appropriation. These funds support 
a Selective Reserve end strength of 865,298, as shown below.

                      SELECTED RESERVE END STRENGTH
                           [Fiscal year 2000]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Conference
                                        Budget    Conference  vs. budget
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Selected Reserve:
  Army Reserve......................     205,000     205,000  ..........
  Navy Reserve......................      90,288      90,288  ..........
  Marine Corps Reserve..............      39,624      39,624  ..........
  Air Force Reserve.................      73,708      73,708  ..........
  Army National Guard...............     350,000     350,000  ..........
  Air National Guard................     106,678     106,678  ..........
                                     -----------------------------------
    Total...........................     865,298     865,298  ..........
                                     ===================================
AGR/TARS:
  Army Reserve......................      12,804      12,804  ..........
  Navy Reserve......................      15,010      15,010  ..........
  Marine Corps Reserve..............       2,272       2,272  ..........
  Air Force Reserve.................       1,078       1,134         +56
  Army National Guard...............      21,807      22,430        +623
  Air National Guard................      11,091      11,162         +71
                                     -----------------------------------
    Total...........................      64,062      64,812        +750
                                     ===================================
Technicians:
  Army Reserve......................       6,474       6,474  ..........
  Air Force Reserve.................       9,785       9,785  ..........
  Army National Guard...............      23,161      23,957        +796
  Air National Guard................      22,589      22,596          +7
                                     -----------------------------------
    Total...........................      62,009      68,812        +803
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       National Guard RAID Teams

      The conferees support the establishment of 17 Rapid 
Assessment and Initial Detection (RAID) teams. Accordingly, the 
conferees provided funding for an additional 198 Army National 
Guard and 66 Air National Guard full-time (AGR) personnel to 
facilitate this mission. Operation and maintenance funding of 
$79,635,000 for RAID teams is provided within the amounts 
allocated to combating terrorism.

                       Army National Guard Center

      The conferees understand that the armory used by 
Headquarters, 53rd Support Battalion, Army National Guard is in 
extensive need of repair and renovation. The conferees have 
provided additional funds for Real Property Maintenance for the 
Army National Guard's backlog of repair and maintenance 
projects, and directs that $1,000,000 be designated for repair 
of the armory in Florida.

                            C-130 Operations

      The conferees recommend a total of $13,500,000 for 
personnel and operation and maintenance costs to support Air 
Force Reserve and Air National Guard C-130 operational support 
aircraft and those stand-alone aircraft currently utilized by 
selected States.


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Other Training and Support:]
    11750  Administration and Support/Enlistment Bonuses......     2,200
  Undistributed:
    12030  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..............................     4,732
    12045  JROTC Program......................................     6,100
    12050  Retirement Reform..................................    -1,000
    12055  College First Program..............................     7,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Other Training and Support:]
    12600  Administration and Support/Enlistment Bonuses......     5,000
    12600  Administration and Support/Selective Reenlistment 
      Bonuses.................................................     4,000
  Undistributed:
    12880  Contributory Support to CINCs......................    10,000
    12895  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..............................     3,049
    12899  JROTC Program......................................     6,000
    12910  Retirement Reform..................................    -1,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

  Undistributed:
    13780  JROTC Program.......................................... 2,600
    13790  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..................................   861


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

  Undistributed:
    14620  4.8 Percent Pay Raise.................................. 1,724
    14626  JROTC Program.......................................... 7,400
    14635  Transfer of Test Support Mission/AGR's................. 2,300


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 2: Other Training and Support:]
    15200  Administration and Support/Enlistment Bonuses......     7,000
  Undistributed:
    15370  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..............................     7,840
    15375  Student Loan Repayment Program.....................     4,000
    15390  Additional Full-Time Support (AGR).................    22,000
    15395  Retirement Reform..................................    -3,000
    15400  Reduction in Workyears/AT..........................    -8,000
    15410  Training Deployments...............................    10,000


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Undistributed:        [In thousands of dollars]
    16130  4.8 Percent Pay Raise..............................     3,384
    16136  Additional Full-Time Support (AGR).................     4,600
    16140  Retirement Reform..................................    -1,000
    16145  C-130 Personnel....................................       500
    16150  DFAS Salary Misalignment...........................    39,200


                         arms control programs

      The conferees have agreed to reduce funding for certain 
arms control activities in the Army and the Air Force. If 
additional funds prove necessary to meet emergent requirements 
stemming from valid treaty obligations, the conferees expect 
the Department of Defense to submit a reprogramming request 
subject to normal, prior approval reprogramming procedures.

                          combating terrorism

      Within the operation and maintenance appropriations, the 
conferees have provided significant resources for the 
antiterrorism activities of the Department. No later than June 
30, 2000, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report which describes the 
use of all funds appropriated for combating terrorism 
activities.

                        homestead air force base

      It has been more than seven years since the devastation 
of Homestead Air Force Base by Hurricane Andrew. The region was 
further impacted by the subsequent decision of the Base 
Realignment and Closure Commission to close and realign the 
installation in 1993. This, coupled with the delay in economic 
redevelopment, has created a devastating economic impact 
throughout the local area. This region is also experiencing 
extremely high unemployment rates far above the national 
average. The conferees recognize these adverse economic 
conditions and urge the Air Force to expeditiously complete 
requisite environmental studies prior to conveying certain real 
property parcels on the installation to facilitate interim use 
activities that will benefit the local economy.

                     dod worker safety enhancement

      The conferees are frustrated by the Department's poor 
record on safety and worker incident rates relative to private 
industry and other federal agencies. Accordingly, the conferees 
direct the Department to initiate programs funded from within 
existing Operation and Maintenance accounts at designated DOD 
facilities that employ alternative, private sector proven, 
models of safety to determine the best way to improve the 
Department's record with respect to injury incidence rates and 
associated costs.

                         railroad safety study

      The conferees direct the Corps of Engineers to study the 
feasibility of realigning the railroad tracks between Fort 
Wainwright and Eielson Air Force Base to improve the overall 
safety and efficiency of the line. The report should be 
provided to the Committees on Appropriations no later than June 
15, 2000.

                       small business advertising

      The conferees understand that there are many qualified 
minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, and small 
businesses that design and place advertising and advertising 
campaigns, which can assist the Department in its recruiting 
efforts using print, electronic, and the radio media. The 
conferees believe these firms can provide valuable new insights 
and expertise to service wide recruiting programs. The 
conferees expect the Department to increase the use of these 
qualified businesses in the initiation, design and placement of 
its advertising in the print, radio and electronic media.


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

                        [In thousands of dollars]
  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:
    250  Soldier Support--Extended Cold Weather Clothing          8,000
     System (ECWCS)........................................
    250  Military Gator....................................       4,000
    250  Soldier Support--Field Kitchen Modern Burner Units       3,000
     (MBU).................................................
    250  Soldier Support--Soldier Modernization............       2,000
    450  Rotational Training--NTC Prepo Fleet Maintenance..      28,000
    450  Rotational Training--Korea Training Area..........       4,100
    450  Rotational Training--CMTC Mission Support.........       4,000
    450  Rotational Training--FORSCOM Deployments to              4,000
     National Training Center..............................
    450  Rotational Training--JRTC Prepo Fleet Maintenance.       2,000
    550  Training Area Environmental Management............      12,000
    600  AWE unjustified program growth....................     -15,000
    650  Depot Maintenance/System Sustainment Tech Support.      20,000
    650  Humanitarian Airlift Aircraft Maintenance.........         200
    650  Post production software support..................      -4,000
    750  Transportation Improvements--Ft. Irwin Road.......      12,500
    750  Ft. Baker Repairs and Maintenance.................       5,000
    750  NTC Airhead.......................................       2,000
    750  Security Improvements--NTC Heliport...............         300
    800  Fort Wainwright utilidors.........................       7,000
    850  Headquarters growth...............................      -4,000
  Budget Activity 3: Training and Recruiting:
    1650  Air Battle Captain Program.......................       1,250
    1850  Joint Assessment of Neurological Equipment.......       1,500
    1950  Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies...........       1,500
    2000  University of Mounted Warfare....................       3,000
    2000  Armor Officers Distance Learning.................         500
    2000  Training Area Environmental Management...........         440
    2050  Training Area Environmental Management...........         312
    2200  Recruiting and Advertising.......................      10,000
    2350  DLAMP............................................      -1,000
    2400  Junior ROTC......................................       3,700
    2450  Recruiting Leases................................       7,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide
 Activities:
    2650  Security Programs (Arms Controls, DSS)...........      -5,000
    2750  Service wide transport, over ocean transport.....     -30,000
    2800  Pulse Technology.................................       5,000
    2850  Supercomputing Work..............................       6,000
    2850  Logistics and Technology Project.................       1,100
    2850  Power Projection C4 Infrastructure...............     -16,552
    3000  Headquarters growth..............................      -5,000
    3050  Service-wide communication underexecution........     -20,000
    3200  Ft. Atkinson Preservation........................         250
    3200  DFAS Reduction...................................      -9,300
    3200  Army conservation and ecosystem management.......       3,000
    3250  Claims Underexecution............................     -43,400
    3350  Corps of Engineers Building Demolition...........       4,650
    3350  BOS-Dugway Proving Ground, Utah..................       4,000
    3350  Pentagon renovation..............................     -76,400
    3350  UC-35A Basing and Sustainment....................      17,800
    3400  Rock Island Bridge Repairs.......................       2,500
    3400  White Sands Missile Range UXO Fence..............       3,500
    3400  Fort Des Moines-Historic OCS Memorial............       2,000
    3600  Support of NATO..................................      -2,000
Undistributed:
    3710  Classified Undistributed.........................       4,500
    3775  Base Operations Support..........................      65,000
    3835  Memorial Events..................................         400
    3940  Real Property Maintenance (Transfer from Quality      625,808
     of Life Enhancements).................................
    3960  Contract and Advisory Services...................     -20,000
    4070  Management Headquarters..........................     -55,000
    4080  Reductions in JCS Exercises......................     -10,000
    4085  Spares/War Reserve Material......................      85,000
    4090  Communications Reduction.........................     -16,000
        CECOM telecommunications upgrades..................     (10,000)


                         general purpose tents

      Of the funds made available in Operation and Maintenance, 
Army the conferees direct that $14,000,000 be made available 
for the purpose of meeting prospective requirements for modular 
general purpose tents (M.G.P.T.) associated with wartime and 
other mobilizations as described in the report accompanying the 
House Department of Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 
2000.

                       real property maintenance

      The conferees direct the Secretary of the Army to submit 
a report to the Appropriations Committees no later than thirty 
days after the enactment of this Act which details the 
allocation of funds appropriated for real property maintenance. 
The report shall detail the allocation of real property 
maintenance funding by major command.

                   firefighting equipment conveyance

      The Secretary of the Army may, notwithstanding title II 
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949, convey without consideration to the Bayonne Local 
Redevelopment Authority, Bayonne, New Jersey, and to the City 
of Bayonne, New Jersey, jointly, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the firefighting equipment from 
the Military Ocean terminal, Bayonne, New Jersey as described 
below: a Pierce Dash 2000 Gpm Pumper, manufactured September 
1995; a Pierce Arrow 100-foot Tower Ladder, manufactured 
February 1994; a Pierce Hazardous Materials truck, manufactured 
1993; a Ford E-350, manufactured 1992; a Ford E-302, 
manufactured 1990; and a Bauer Compressor, manufactured 
November 1989. The conveyance and delivery shall be at no cost 
to the Department of Defense.
      The Secretary may require such additional terms and 
conditions in connection with this conveyance as he considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the Department.

                            toussaint river

      The conferees direct that of the funds provided in 
Operation and Maintenance, Army, $500,000 be provided for a 
study of the costs and feasibility of a project to remove 
ordnance from the Toussaint River.

                         avtec fibers facility

      Of the funding available in Operation and Maintenance, 
Army, the conferees agree to provide $5,000,000 for cleanup 
activities at this facility.

         joint computer-aided acquisition and logistics system

      The conferees have provided the full amount requested in 
the President's Budget for the Joint Computer-Aided Acquisition 
and Logistics System (JCALS). Consistent with the Senate's 
intent, the $20,000,000 provided in JCALS defense information 
infrastructure (DII) funds are allocated to the JCALS southeast 
regional technical center. Of these funds, $11,500,000 is for 
standard JCALS DII activities only and $8,500,000 is 
transferred to the core JCALS program for expansion of the 
southeast regional center's activities beyond the center's 
current location.

                          yuma proving ground

      The conferees encourage the Army to go forward with 
necessary studies to determine federal interest in creating a 
public-private partnership to establish and maintain a hot 
weather test track and free fall simulator.


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    4400  Flying Hours (Marine Aviation Logistics CH-46/T-58).    20,000
    4400  UAV Flight Hours....................................     2,000
    4450  Contractor Maintenance Support (Marine Corps 
      Aviation)...............................................     1,500
    4450  Rotational Training--Naval Air Strike Airwarfare 
      Center..................................................     2,000
    4600  Depot Maintenance--Aircraft and Support Equipment 
      Rework..................................................    24,000
    4600  Depot Maintenance--EA-6B Depot Support (Marine Corps 
      Aviation)...............................................     1,600
    4600  Depot Maintenance--EA-6B Pod Repair (Marine Corps 
      Aviation)...............................................       600
    5000  Depot Maintenance--Ship Depot Maintenance...........    55,000
    5000  Shipyard Apprentice Program.........................    12,000
    5050  Ship Depot Operations Support PHNSY ship repair.....    23,000
    5400  Joint Warfare Analysis Center.......................     3,000
    5400  Warfare Tactics PMRF facilities improvements........     5,000
    5450  Operational Meteorology and oceanography............     7,000
    5450  UNOLS...............................................     3,000
    5500  Unjustified Growth for USACOM.......................    -2,000
    5550  Reverse Osmosis Desalinators........................     1,000
    5850  Fleet Ballistic missile underexecution..............    -5,000
    5950  Depot Maintenance--Aegis Cruiser Upgrade Program....     7,500
    5950  Depot Maintenance--MK-45 Overhaul...................    10,000
    5950  Depot Maintenance--CWIS Overhaul....................     4,000
    5950  Pioneer UAV Flight Hours/Weapons Maintenance........     4,000
  Budget Activity 2: Mobilization:
    6650  NWS Concord.........................................       500
  Budget Activity 3: Training and Recruiting:
    7300  Center for Non-Proliferation Studies, Monterey......     4,000
    7300  Naval Postgraduate School--Facility Maintenance.....     2,000
    7300  Defense Language Institute..........................     1,000
    7300  Professional Development Education Asia Pacific 
      Center..................................................     1,700
    7350  CNET................................................     4,000
    7350  Navy Electricity and Electronics Training...........     4,000
    7550  Recruiting and Advertising..........................    10,000
    7650  Civilian Education and Training.....................    -1,000
    7700  Junior ROTC.........................................     3,400
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide Activities:
    8000  DFAS Reduction......................................    -9,300
    8000  Pentagon Renovation.................................   -33,400
    8050  Public Service Initiative...........................       300
    8250  Servicewide Communications..........................    -4,000
    8600  ATIS................................................     2,500
    8600  Object Oriented Simulations/Reengineering...........     1,000
    8650  Air Systems Support underexecution..................   -10,000
    8750  Integrated Combat Systems Test Facility Support.....     1,000
    9000  Security Programs (DSS).............................    -3,500
    9220  Barrow landfill.....................................     3,000
    9220  Ford Island improvements............................     8,000
    9220  USS Iowa relocation.................................     3,000
    9220  Adak facilities remediation.........................     5,000
    9230  Adak base support...................................     7,500
Undistributed:
    9355  Real Property Maintenance (Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements)......................................   493,369
    9357  Force Protection (Afloat)...........................    12,000
    9357  Force Protection (Ashore)...........................     8,000
    9360  Classified Programs Undistributed...................     2,500
    9395  Base Operations Support.............................    50,000
    9540  Navy Environmental Leadership Program...............     4,000
    9590  Executive Education Demonstration Project...........     1,000
    9600  Spares..............................................    85,000
    9700  Management Headquarters.............................   -35,000
    9705  Reduction in JCS Exercises..........................    -2,000
    9710  Contract and Advisory Services......................   -10,000
    9725  Communications Reduction............................   -19,000
    9730  Maritime Fire Training Center.......................       300

                     MARITIME FIRE TRAINING CENTER

      Of the funds provided in Operation and Maintenance, Navy, 
$300,000 shall be used only for final design, site planning, 
preparation and development, and materials and equipment 
acquisition for the Maritime Fire Training Center at MERTS.

               executive education demonstration program

      The conference agreement provides $1,000,000 of the funds 
from Operation and Maintenance, Navy for the Executive 
Education Demonstration Program at the University of San Diego. 
This initiative provides local executive education to naval 
personnel in the region including an enhanced doctoral program 
in leadership and an intensive executive management training in 
global leadership for senior line officers. The program will be 
offered on-site, at naval installations, and by means of 
distance learning at remote sites and at sea.

                   regional telecommunications system

      The conferees direct that of the funds provided in 
Operation and Maintenance, Navy not less than $2,000,000 shall 
be available only for the Integrated Regional 
Telecommunications System in the Pacific Northwest.

                     pacific missile range facility

      The conferees agree to increase funding for Tactical 
Warfare by $5,000,000 to improve facilities at the Pacific 
Missile Range as recommended by the Senate. This increase is in 
addition to the funding which shall be provided to sustain base 
and range operations at PMRF at the fiscal year 1999 level.

                      concord NWS joint use report

      The conferees agree that the due date for the joint use 
report specified in the House report shall be January 15, 2000.

                         oceanographic research

      Within the funds provided for Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy, the conferees direct that $7,500,000 be used only to fund 
backlogs in oceanographic research.


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    10050  Soldier Support--Initial Issue.....................    15,000
    10050  Rotational Training--MCAGCC Improvements...........    25,700
    10050  Training and OPTEMPO (III MEF Airlift Requirements)    10,000
    10050  Soldier Support--Body Armor........................     3,000
    10050  NBC Defense Equipment..............................     1,100
    10100  Corrosion Control..................................     6,000
    10100  Fuel Conversion to JP 5/8..........................     1,100
    10150  Depot Maintenance..................................    20,000
    10350  Care in Storage (WRM Materials)....................     2,000
  Budget Activity 3: Training and Recruiting:
    10650  Naval ROTC-Marine Option...........................       500
    11000  Distance Learning..................................     1,000
    11200  Recruiting and Advertising.........................    10,000
    11250  Off-Duty and Voluntary Education...................     1,500
    11300  Junior ROTC........................................     1,600
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    11650  DFAS Reduction.....................................    -2,000
  Undistributed:
    11905  Real Property Maintenance (Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements)......................................   120,225
    11945  Base Operations Support............................    10,000
    12030  Reduction in JCS Exercises.........................    -2,400
    12070  Marine Corps Security Guards.......................     4,100
    12075  Spares/War Reserve Materiel........................    25,000
    12085  Communications Reductions..........................      -150
    12090  IRV Transfer.......................................    -3,850

                      SOLDIER SUPPORT INITIATIVES

      Within the adjustments provided for Soldier Support, the 
conferees recommend that continued requirements for enhanced 
pack systems be sustained at current levels.


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    12600  Battlelabs.........................................     4,000
    12600  B-52 attrition reserve.............................    25,000
    12650  Reverse Osmosis Desalinators.......................       500
    12700  Enhancement Forces mission planning system.........    -1,000
    12750  Rotational Training--AETC Mission Essential 
      Equipment...............................................    14,000
    12750  Rotational Training--Utah Test and Training Range 
      Support.................................................    11,700
    12750  Rotational Training--Funding for Air Warfare Center 
      Range Support...........................................     6,100
    12750  Rotational Training--AETC Range Improvements.......     5,900
    12750  Rotational Training--Funding for Air Warfare Center 
      Fiber Link..............................................     4,600
    12775  Depot Maintenance..................................    20,000
    12775  Object Oriented Simulations/Reengineering..........     1,000
    12800  Communications, Other Contracts....................    -2,000
    13000  Global C3I, Early Warning underexecution...........   -15,000
    13050  University Partnering for Operational Support......     5,000
    13100  Power Scene........................................     3,000
    13100  SIMVAL.............................................     1,261
    13350  Launch Facility Enhancements.......................    10,000
    13450  Space Control Systems underexecution...............   -15,000
  Budget Activity 2: Mobilization:
    13850  Airlift Operations (C-17 Sustainability)...........     2,000
    13975  Depot Maintenance..................................     4,000
  Budget Activity 3: Training and Recruiting:
    14450  RPM................................................    -2,000
    14800  Base Support and Other Training....................   -10,000
    14950  Recruiting and Advertising.........................    10,000
    15100  Civilian education and training....................    -1,000
    15150  Junior ROTC........................................     4,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    15350  REMIS..............................................     3,000
    15350  Joint Service ammo management automated info system 
      JAMSS...................................................     1,000
    15500  Pentagon renovation................................   -41,400
    15550  RPM-Eielson utilidors..............................     9,900
    15550  Tinker and Altus base repairs......................    20,000
    15650  Acquisition Travel and Contracts...................    -4,181
    15700  Servicewide Communications.........................    -4,000
    15750  Personnel Programs.................................   -11,400
    15900  Arms control underexecution........................    -8,000
    15950  DFAS Reduction.....................................    -9,400
    15950  Other servicewide activities, other contracts......    -4,000
    16000  Personnel Support underexecution...................    -3,000
    16050  Civil Air Patrol Corporation.......................     7,500
    16100  William Lehman Aviation Center.....................       500
    16250  Security Programs (DSS)............................    -3,600
  Undistributed:
    16410  Classified Undistributed...........................     6,400
    16480  Base Operations Support............................    65,000
    16670  Force Protection Infrastructure....................     5,000
    16680  Real Property Maintenance (Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements)......................................   400,826
    16700  Spares.............................................    85,000
    16795  NBC High Leverage Programs.........................     9,000
    16800  C130J Logistics and Training.......................     3,000
    16810  ICBM Prime Contract................................     8,000
    16835  Management Headquarters............................   -20,000
    16840  Reduction in JCS Exercises.........................   -10,000
    16845  Contact and Advisory Services......................   -10,000
    16850  Depot Maintenance--Rivet Joint #15-16/COBRA BALL 3.    15,000
    16855  Air Force MTAP.....................................     4,000
    16870  Communications Reduction...........................   -16,000
    16875  Administrative underexecution......................      -450

                   radioactive iodine experimentation

      The conferees strongly support the Air Force in its 
efforts to provide funding for the North Slope Borough for 
costs and expenditures associated with health care, monitoring 
and other issues arising from experimentation conducted in the 
1950s. The conferees direct the Air Force to resolve this 
matter as soon as possible.

                                 mtapp

      The conference agreement includes $4,000,000 above the 
budget request for the MTAPP program. Of this amount, not less 
than $2,000,000 shall be available to the current pilot program 
manager, and $2,000,000 to expand the program to Pennsylvania.


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity I: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    17050  JCS--Joint Exercises...............................   -10,000
    17050  JCS--Exercise Northern Edge........................     7,000
    17100  SOCOM--ASDS Slip/Realignment.......................    -3,000
    17100  SOCOM--NSWG--1.....................................       500
    17100  SOCOM--JTT/CIBS--M.................................       500
  Budget Activity 2: Mobilization:
    17250  DLA--Warstopper....................................     1,500
  Budget Activity 3: Training and Recruiting:
    17460  DAU--IT Organizational Composition Research........     1,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    17775  Civil--Military Programs...........................     1,300
    17800  Classified and Intelligence........................    65,950
    17900  DCAA--Low priority program growth..................    -4,000
    18000  DHRA--DIMHRS transfer..............................   -41,200
    18000  DHRA--DEERS........................................     4,000
    18200  DLA--Automated Document Conversion.................    30,000
    18200  DLA--Security Locks................................    10,000
    18200  DLA--Performance Measures..........................    -5,000
    18200  DLA--Improved Cargo Methods........................     4,000
    18200  DLA--Midway Fuel Resupply..........................     2,000
    18310  DSCA--Performance Measures.........................    -2,000
    18475  DTRA--OSIA Treaty Implementation...................   -13,500
    18475  DTRA--Performance Measures.........................    -2,000
    18500  DoDEA--Math Teacher Leadership.....................       400
    18500  DoDEA--WIC Program Overseas........................     1,000
    18500  DoDEA--Special Education Support...................     5,000
    18500  DoDEA--Technology Innovation and Teacher Education.     4,000
    18600  JCS--JMEANS........................................     4,000
    18600  JCS--Management Support............................    -5,000
    18650  OEA--Fitzsimmons Army Hospital.....................    10,000
    18650  OEA--Pico Rivera...................................     2,000
    18650  OEA--Fort Ord conversion support...................     5,000
    18650  OEA--San Diego Conversion Center...................     5,000
    18650  OEA--Philadelphia Naval Shipyard...................     7,500
    18650  OEA--Charleston Naval Shipyard.....................     7,500
    18650  OEA--Charleston Macalloy site......................    10,000
    18700  OSD--C4ISR.........................................     3,000
    18700  OSD--NE/SA Center for Security Studies.............     1,000
    18700  OSD--Middle East Regional Security Issues..........     1,000
    18700  OSD--Energy Savings Contracts......................     4,000
    18700  OSD--Job Placement Program.........................     4,000
    18700  OSD--Youth Development and Leadership Program......       300
    18700  OSD--Performance Measures..........................   -10,000
    18700  OSD--Youth Development Initiative..................     2,500
    18700  OSD--Management and Contract Support...............    -8,000
    18700  OSD--(A&T) Travel and Contracts....................   -10,000
    18700  OSD--Commercial Technology for Maintenance 
      Activities..............................................     8,000
    18700  OSD--Pacific Disaster Center.......................     4,000
    18700  OSD--Clara Barton Center...........................     1,300
    18700  OSD--Funeral Honors for Veterans...................     5,000
    18900  WHS--Low priority programs.........................   -10,000
    18900  WHS--Defense Travel Service........................   -19,000
    18900  WHS--Emergency Notification........................     1,000
  Undistributed:
    18960  Undistributed--Legacy..............................    15,000
    19110  Undistributed--Impact Aid..........................    30,000
    19250  Undistributed--Mobility Enhancements...............    25,000
    19295  Undistributed--Human Resources Enterprise Strategy.     4,000
    19305  Undistributed--Headquarters and Management.........   -30,000
    19335  Undistributed--Contract and Advisory Services......   -10,000
    19336  Undistributed--Community Retraining Initiative.....     8,000
    19347  Undistributed--Pentagon Renovation Transfer Fund...   -68,300
    19348  Undistributed--Armed Forces Retirement Homes (RPM).     5,000
    19349  Undistributed--Pacific Command Regional Initiative.    10,000

                     defense acquisition university

      From within the funds provided for the Defense 
Acquisition University, up to $5,000,000 may be spent on a 
pilot program using state-of-the-art training technology that 
would train the acquisition workforce in a simulated government 
procurement environment.

                        civil/military programs

      The conferees recommend a total of $88,803,000 for the 
Department's civil/military programs for fiscal year 2000 as 
shown below. The conferees direct the Department to report to 
the Committees on Appropriations on the status of the 
obligation of these funds not later than March 15, 2000.

                         [Dollars in thousands]

National Guard Youth Challenge Program........................   $62,503
Innovative Readiness Training Program.........................    20,000
Starbase Program..............................................     6,300
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................    88,803

                         improved cargo methods

      The conferees recommend $4,000,000, only to test, develop 
and implement cost saving opportunities identified in ongoing 
studies of private sector logistics technology, practices and 
procedures to move military cargo more cheaply, with greater 
speed and with greater reliability. To ensure diverse views of 
the state of the art in third party logistics management and 
other emerging techniques are brought to bear, the conferees 
intend that these funds be used to provide the Government 
access to a range of qualified organizations or entities having 
detailed knowledge of commercial logistics processes that may 
have value for the military.

                         child care facilities

      The conferees are concerned that service members in some 
career fields with extended duty requirements are experiencing 
problems with access to day care facilities. The conferees 
direct the Department to report, no later than April 1, 2000, 
on the day care access policies of the various services, with 
particular attention to the problems generated by extended duty 
requirements.
      In addition, the conferees direct the Department to 
review how the Services could expand the use of the Family 
Child Care subsidy program. The report should include options 
to address the needs of families who require extended hours of 
child care as a result of irregular duty hours or temporary 
duty deployments, and the costs associated with any such policy 
changes.

                         unallocated reductions

      The House report included language in Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-wide, specifically exempting the Joint 
Vision 2010 initiative and the Office of Net Assessment from 
any unallocated reductions. The Senate had no such provision. 
The House recedes to the Senate.

                     armed forces retirement homes

      The conferees provide $5,000,000 to be available for real 
property maintenance and repair requirements at the Armed 
Forces Retirement Homes.

                  pacific command regional initiative

      The conferees agree to provide $10,000,000 to be 
available for the U.S. Pacific Command to enhance regional 
cooperation, military training, readiness and exercises. The 
Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Command, shall report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on plans and 
priorities to utilize these funds to achieve key mission 
readiness and warfighting priorities not later than December 1, 
1999.

              study group on multilateral export controls

      The conferees direct that the Department convene a Study 
Group of senior-level executive branch and congressional 
officials, as well as outside experts, to develop the framework 
for a new effective, COCOM-like agreement that would regulate 
certain military useful goods and technologies on a 
multilateral basis. The final product shall be a written final 
report to be completed by January, 2001. The Department shall 
make available up to $1,000,000 from within the funds available 
in Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide for this purpose.


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    19620  Mission Operations/Increased Optempo...............    10,000
    19640  Forces Readiness Operations Support/Training Area 
      Environmental Management................................     1,000
    19660  Depot Maintenance..................................     3,400
    19680  Base Support.......................................     5,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    20070  Recruiting and Advertising.........................    18,000
  Undistributed:
    20080  Training Deployments...............................    10,000
    20090  Real Property Maintenance..........................    10,000
    20120  Recruiting Support.................................     3,000
    20360  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................    39,563


                    Adjustments to Budget Activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    22050  Recruiting and Advertising.........................     5,000
    22060  Recruiting Support.................................     5,000
  Undistributed:
    22794  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................    13,831
    22796  Base Operations....................................     7,500
    22810  Real Property Maintenance..........................    10,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    23600  Maintenance of Real Property.......................     2,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    23850  Recruiting and Advertising.........................     1,000
  Undistributed:
    24110  Increased Use of Guard and Reserve.................     1,200
    24220  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................       945
    24250  Initial Issue......................................     8,000
    24270  Spares.............................................     1,500
    24280  Recruiting Support.................................     1,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    24970  Depot Maintenance..................................    10,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    25400  Recruiting and Advertising.........................     2,000
    25410  Recruiting Support.................................     2,000
  Undistributed:
    25510  Real Property Maintenance..........................    10,000
    25520  Base Operations....................................    10,000
    25558  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................    12,154
    25570  C-130 Operations...................................     8,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    26340  Land Forces Readiness/Depot Maintenance............     2,000
    26400  Base Operations/Training Area Environmental 
      Management..............................................     5,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    26680  Information Management/Distance Learning...........    42,000
    26680  National Guard Fiber Optics Study..................     2,500
    26740  Recruiting and Advertising.........................     7,000
  Undistributed:
    26860  Military (civilian) Technicians Shortfall..........    48,000
    26863  Additional Full-Time Support (Technicians).........    20,000
    26865  Optempo Increase...................................    15,000
    26866  School House Support...............................    10,000
    26867  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................    60,629
    26880  Real Property Maintenance..........................    20,000
    26900  Extended Cold Weather Clothing System..............     7,000
    26910  Angel Gate Academy.................................     4,200
    26920  NGB Project Management System......................     1,500
    26930  Tuition Assistance.................................     6,000
    26940  Recruiting Support.................................     7,000


                    adjustments to budget activities

      Adjustments to the budget activities are as follows:

  Budget Activity 1: Operating Forces:of dollars]
    27650  Aircraft Operations/Optempo........................    15,000
    27660  Aircraft Spares....................................     7,500
    27750  Base Support.......................................     2,000
    27750  Base Support/Buckley ANG Base......................     4,800
    27800  Maintenance of Real Property.......................    10,000
    27850  Depot Maintenance..................................    20,000
  Budget Activity 4: Administration and Servicewide 
    Activities:
    28100  Recruiting and Advertising.........................     5,000
  Undistributed:
    28150  Real Property Maintenance/Transfer from Quality of 
      Life Enhancements.......................................    63,020
    28160  C-130 Operations...................................     5,000
    28170  Base Operations....................................     4,000
    28175  Recruiting Support.................................     2,000
    28180  National Guard State Partnership Program...........     1,000
    28185  Project Alert......................................     2,200

             overseas contingency operations transfer fund

      The conferees agree to provide $1,722,600,000 for the 
Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund. This amount 
provides for continuing operations in Bosnia and Southwest Asia 
and takes into account amounts which carry over due to the 
early cessation of the air campaign in Kosovo.

          united states court of appeals for the armed forces

      The conference agreement provides $7,621,000 for the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.

                    environmental restoration, army

      The conference agreement provides $378,170,000 for 
Environmental Restoration, Army.

                    environmental restoration, navy

      The conference agreement provides $284,000,000 for 
Environmental Restoration, Navy.

                  environmental restoration, air force

      The conference agreement provides $376,800,000 for 
Environmental Restoration, Air Force.

                environmental restoration, defense-wide

      The conference agreement provides $25,370,000 for 
Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide.

         environmental restoration, formerly used defense sites

      The conference agreement provides $239,214,000 for 
Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites.

                       Environmental Contracting

      The conferees are concerned about the effect of the 
Department's use of large indefinite delivery-indefinite 
quantity (IDIQ) contracts on small businesses. Therefore, the 
conferees included a general provision (Section 8130) which 
directs that not more than 35 percent of the funds obligated by 
the Department of Defense for environmental remediation shall 
be executed through IDIQ contracts with a total contract amount 
of $130,000,000. Furthermore, the conferees direct that the 
Secretary of Defense provide a report to the congressional 
defense committees no later than January 15, 2000 on the 
Department's use of IDIQ contracts during fiscal year 1999 and 
that this information be provided quarterly throughout fiscal 
year 2000. The January 15th report should also include an 
analysis comparing IDIQ contracts with other contract options 
in terms of cost, involvement of small businesses, and the 
inclusion of local companies.

                      Joliet Army Ammunition Plant

      The Department of the Army manufactured munitions and 
explosives at the Joliet Ammunition Plant from the 1940s until 
approximately 1976. Portions of the property became heavily 
contaminated as a result of this use. The U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency listed a portion of the arsenal on the 
National Priority List in 1987. In consultation with the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Army developed a Record of Decision 
(ROD) outlining the remediation of the arsenal. The Army and 
the Joliet Arsenal Development Authority continue to work 
closely to better coordinate those issues concerning the Army's 
cleanup of the Joliet Arsenal. The conferees strongly encourage 
the Army to continue to fully support the cleanup and 
conversion projects at this site and ensure the cleanup is 
completed in a timely manner.

                       Iowa Army Ammunition Plant

      The Secretary of the Army shall conduct a review of past 
nuclear weapons activities of the Iowa Army Ammunition Plant in 
order to determine possible environmental contamination, and 
possible exposure of former nuclear weapons workers and the 
local community to such activities. This review shall be 
conducted in coordination with the Department of Energy and 
provided to the congressional defense committees not later than 
June 15, 2000.

                   Massachusetts Military Reservation

      The conferees are aware that the Massachusetts Military 
Reservation (MMR) located on Cape Cod, Massachusetts is 
undergoing extensive environmental characterization and 
remediation. The portion of MMR leased to the Army and licensed 
back to Massachusetts for training and support of the MA Army 
National Guard, known as Camp Edwards, is subject to two 
administrative orders issued in 1997 by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency--Region 1 under the authority of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act. Those orders specifically require 
characterization activities at and near the training range/
impact area at Camp Edwards to determine the impact of 
military-related activities on the underlying groundwater. In 
order to facilitate compliance with those orders, the conferees 
include a general provision (Section 8154) that provides for 
the use of funds appropriated to Operation and Maintenance, 
Army to pay for costs associated with such characterization and 
any ensuing remediation.

                                El Toro

      The conferees are concerned about the status of the 
former Marine Corps Air Station El Toro and encourage the 
Department to take all necessary environmental remediation 
measures.

                                Newmark

      The conferees continue to have serious concern about the 
Department's failure to respond at a senior level to 
groundwater contamination at the Newmark and Muscoy Superfund 
sites in California. The conferees understand that both the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the City of San 
Bernardino believe that the contamination is a direct result of 
industrial waste from Camp Ono, a World War II depot and 
maintenance facility. The EPA has reported that there is ``no 
other reasonable source for the contamination,'' than the 
former Army base, and, more recently, that the Army is ``a 
likely source of the contamination.''
      Report language in the conference reports accompanying 
the fiscal year 1997 and 1998 Defense Appropriations Bills 
highlighted the urgency of this program and requested adequate 
funding and prompt action by the Department to remediate this 
site. The conferees are disappointed with the Department's 
response. The Department has effectively ignored a September, 
1998 court order to mediate the dispute. The conferees are 
particularly concerned by the Department's lack of a response 
to the conferees November, 1998 request for senior-level 
mediation involving the Department and the Environmental 
Protection Agency. As a result, the conferees strongly believe 
that the Department should, within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act, initiate senior-level mediation in this matter with the 
EPA, the City of San Bernardino, and the State of California 
and report to the congressional defense committees fully 
explaining the Department's plan to reach a timely resolution 
to this matter.

             overseas humanitarian, disaster, and civic aid

      The conference agreement provides $55,800,000 for 
Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid.

                  former soviet union threat reduction

      The conference agreement provides $460,500,000 for the 
Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction program.

                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      Budget           House          Senate        Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Strategic Nuclear Arms Elimination Ukraine......          33,000          43,000         33,000           35,000
Strategic Offensive Arms Elimination Russia.....         157,300         177,300        157,300          157,300
Weapons Transportation Russia...................          15,200          15,200         15,200           15,200
Weapons Storage Security Russia.................          40,000          90,000         40,000           84,000
Warhead Dismantlement Processing Russia.........           9,300           9,300          9,300            9,300
Reactor Core Conversion.........................          20,000          20,000         20,000                0
Fissile Material Storage Russia.................          64,500          60,900         64,500           64,500
Biological Weapons Proliferation Prevention                2,000          14,000          2,000           14,000
 Russia.........................................
Chemical Weapons Destruction Russia.............         130,400          24,600        130,400                0
Defense and Military Contacts...................           2,000  ..............          2,000            2,000
Other Assessments...............................           1,800           1,800          1,800            2,000
Submarine Dismantlement.........................  ..............  ..............        [25,000]          25,000
Security enhancements at Chemical Weapons sites.  ..............  ..............  ..............          20,000
Cooperative program to eliminate weapons grade    ..............  ..............  ..............          32,200
 plutonium......................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 quality of life enhancements, defense

      The conference agreement provides $300,000,000 for 
Quality of Life Enhancements, Defense. The conference 
agreement, which distributes funding as indicated below, 
includes funding both to reduce the substantial backlog of real 
property maintenance, and to provide for certain requirements 
associated with local educational authorities.

                        [In thousands of dollars]

Quality of Life Enhancements, Defense: Program 
    Increases:
    Army................................................     $77,000,000
    Navy................................................      77,000,000
    Marine Corps........................................      58,500,000
    Air Force...........................................      77,000,000
    Defense-wide........................................      10,500,000


                          reprogramming policy

      The conferees direct the Secretary of Defense not to 
implement any reprogramming actions (including notification 
reprogram-
mings) submitted to the congressional defense committees unless 
the Committees on Appropriations communicate approval of the 
reprogrammings. This direction applies to all defense accounts.

                       interim contractor support

      The conference agreement retains funding in Air Force 
procurement accounts for Interim Contractor Support (ICS) for 
Fiscal Year 2000. For the C-17, E-8, and B-2 programs, the 
conferees provided ICS funding in separate procurement line-
items to facilitate better oversight in Congress and in the 
Department of Defense of the large levels of ICS in these 
programs. These line-items are subject to the same 
reprogramming procedures as other line-items in these accounts. 
The conferees direct the Secretary of Defense to ensure 
procurement programs expeditiously transition these efforts to 
operation and maintenance accounts. In particular, the 
conferees direct the Secretary of Defense to transition C-17 
ICS (known as Flexible Sustainment) to the operations and 
maintenance account in the fiscal year 2001 budget submission. 
The conferees further direct that ICS be clearly identified in 
procurement budget documentation.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UH-60  BLACKHAWK (MYP)......................................       86,140      207,140      207,140      202,340
    UH-60L Blackhawks (+6)..................................  ...........       54,000       54,000       54,000
    (Note: UH-60L aircraft are only for the National Guard)
    UH-60Q (+3).............................................  ...........       67,000       67,000       40,200
    (Note: UH-60Q aircraft are only for the National Guard)
    UH-60L Firehawk (+2)....................................  ...........  ...........  ...........       22,000
    (Note: UH-60L Firehawk aircraft only for the National
     Guard)
AH-64 MODS..................................................       22,565      116,565       67,565       33,065
    LOLA boost pump.........................................  ...........        3,000            0        1,500
    Vibration management enhancement program................  ...........        7,000            0        4,500
    (Note: Only for the National Guard)
    Oil debris detection system.............................  ...........        3,000            0        1,500
    (Note: Only for the National Guard)
    Apache second generation FLIR...........................  ...........       75,000            0            0
    (Note: funds transferred to RDT&E)
    HF radio integration....................................  ...........        6,000            0        3,000
    Longbow Processor Obsolesence...........................  ...........            0       45,000            0
CH-47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS.................................       70,738      126,838       73,738      111,738
    Accelerate reengining effort............................  ...........       56,100  ...........       40,000
    NRE costs for troop safety enhancements.................  ...........  ...........        3,000        1,000
LONGBOW.....................................................      729,536      774,536      717,836      752,836
    Processor obsolescence..................................  ...........       45,000            0       35,000
    Deferral of air-to-air program efforts..................  ...........            0       -6,900       -6,900
    Reduction in gfe/other funds based on late award........  ...........            0       -4,800       -4,800
KIOWA WARRIOR...............................................       39,046       39,046       45,646       42,346
    Crew station mission equipment trainer program..........  ...........            0        2,600        1,300
    Switchable eyesafe laser rangefinder/designator.........  ...........            0        4,000        2,000
AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT............................           88       24,188       12,588       15,588
    ASET IV.................................................  ...........       18,100       12,500       12,500
    AN/AVR-2A laser detection sets..........................  ...........        6,000            0        3,000
COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.....................................       39,915       37,915       19,315       20,315
    Helicopter external lift enhancer.......................  ...........        2,000            0        1,000
    Delays in aircraft cleaning and deicing system..........  ...........  ...........       -2,500       -2,500
    Delays in DoD Advanced Automation Systems...............  ...........  ...........      -10,100      -10,100
    Delays in Airfield Status Automation System.............  ...........  ...........       -4,000       -4,000
AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS..................................        4,394       14,894       12,394       13,894
    UH-60 A/L cockpit air bag system........................  ...........       10,500            0        5,000
    Digital source collector................................  ...........            0        3,000        1,500
    HGU-56/P aircrew integrated helmet system for the Army    ...........            0        5,000        3,000
     National Guard.........................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Budget       House        Senate      Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JAVELIN ADVANCE PROCUREMENT................................       98,406            0            0        40,000
    Economic order quantity................................  ...........      -98,406      -98,406        40,000
MLRS LAUNCHER SYSTEMS......................................      130,634      138,134      130,634       138,134
    Vehiclular intercommunications system (AN/VIC-3)         ...........        2,500            0         2,500
     cordless..............................................
    Loader launch module and fire control system...........  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
PATRIOT MODS...............................................       30,840       30,840       30,840        50,840
    Patriot anti-cruise missile system.....................  ...........            0      (35,000)            0
    Patriot service life extension program.................  ...........            0            0        20,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            patriot upgrade

      The conferees have provided $50,840,000 for the Patriot 
missile upgrade program, an increase of $20,000,000 only for a 
service life extension program. The conferees direct that none 
of the additional funds may be obligated until the Secretary of 
Defense provides an assessment of various Patriot missile 
modification programs, including, but not limited to, the 
Patriot Anti-Cruise Missile and the GEM upgrade programs. The 
assessment is to include the capability of each system against 
all potential target sets, to include cruise missiles and the 
development and acquisition costs associated with each 
modification program. Thirty days after the Secretary's 
findings are submitted to the defense committees, the funds may 
be used to upgrade/extend the life of Patriot missiles in the 
Army inventory.

                                javelin

      The conferees agree to provide the authority for the Army 
to enter into a Javelin multi-year contract. However, the 
conferees direct that the Army may not enter into such a 
contract until thirty days after the Secretary of Defense 
certifies the quantities purchased are correct and that any 
outstanding technical and manufacturing issues have been 
resolved and tested.

                               starstreak

      The conferees urge the Department of the Army to 
reprogram the funds necessary to complete a live fire, side-by-
side operational test and evaluation of the air-to-air 
Starstreak and air-to-air Stinger missiles fired from the AH-
64D Apache helicopter.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRADLEY BASE SUSTAINMENT....................................      308,762      392,762      315,762      383,762
    A0 to ods conversion (Note: Only for the National Guard)  ...........       80,000            0       80,000
    Vehicular intercommunications system (AN/VIC-3).........  ...........        4,000        4,000        4,000
    DSESTS..................................................  ...........            0        3,000        3,000
    Maintain fiscal year 99 quantities......................  ...........            0            0      -12,000
BRADLEY BASE SUSTAINMENT....................................       27,675       27,675       27,675            0
    Cancel multi-year procurement...........................  ...........            0            0      -27,675
HOWITZER, 155MM M109A6 (MOD)................................        6,259        7,259       27,259       27,259
    Vehicular intercommunications system (AN/VIC-3).........  ...........        1,000        1,000        1,000
    Paladin (National Guard)................................  ...........            0       20,000       20,000
HEAVY ASSAULT BRIDGE MODIFICATIONS..........................       67,312       67,312       82,812       82,812
    DSESTS..................................................  ...........            0        1,500        1,500
    Advance Procurement.....................................  ...........            0       14,000       14,000
ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-WTCV)...........................        1,206        1,206       16,206        1,206
    PI combat vehicle crewman's headsets (Note: Transfer to   ...........            0       15,000            0
     OPA)...................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               abrams tank upgrade multi-year procurement

      With some reluctance, the conferees have approved the 
Army's request to renew multi-year procurement authority to 
continue the M1A2 Abrams tank upgrade program subject to the 
condition described below. The conferees seriously question the 
Army's proposal to enter a new follow-on multi-year agreement 
that would increase the average unit cost of a tank upgrade (M1 
to M1A2 SEP) from $5.6 million per tank in FY 1999 to $6.7 
million per tank starting in FY 2001. The conferees note that, 
in general, the trend throughout the Department has been that 
follow-on multi-year agreements show significant unit price 
decreases as production efficiencies improve and mature. While 
much of the cost increase for this program can be attributed to 
lower planned production rates, the conferees remain puzzled 
why greater efforts have not been made to lower unit costs, 
especially when the cost of this upgrade now threatens to equal 
the cost of procuring a new tank.
      The conferees agree that the Army shall not enter into a 
new multi-year procurement agreement for the M1A2 SEP program 
until it has conducted a detailed and thorough reexamination of 
the costs of this program and has reevaluated the overall 
program structure in light of the Army's ongoing reevaluation 
of its overall modernization strategy and plan. The conference 
agreement therefore restricts approval of the new MYP agreement 
until 30 days after the Army has submitted a report to Congress 
detailing the results of its M1A2 SEP cost and program 
structure review. The conferees expect this report to:
            Describe renewed efforts by the Army and by 
        industry to reduce production cost in all areas;
            Recommend ways to improve cost accounting practices 
        to shift overhead costs not directly attributable to 
        production of this tank upgrade to the proper accounts;
            Reexamine options (in concert with any new armored 
        force revisions made as part of the larger strategic 
        review) to use newer tank chassis' for the upgrade that 
        might significantly lower unit cost;
            Reexamine the planned rates of production for this 
        program;
            Reassess the cost and benefits of installing an 
        auxiliary power unit as part of this upgrade;
            Review ways to further reduce the cost of the 
        second generation FLIR system; and provide a detailed 
        description of the terms and conditions of its proposed 
        multi-year procurement agreement.
      The conferees believe the Army should revisit its 
decision to commit to inefficient rates of 80 tanks per year 
over three years and only 43 tanks in year four and 24 tanks in 
year five.
      With respect to revaluation of the APU, the conferees are 
disturbed that more consideration and priority has not been 
given to upgrades that would reduce the very high cost of 
operation of this tank. The one proposed modification to reduce 
cost was the on-board auxiliary power unit, which was 
subsequently dropped from the package for ``affordability'' 
reasons. Given the well known problems with the Abrams power 
plant, the conferees would think that any modification that 
would reduce the significant O&S costs for this equipment would 
receive high priority. The conferees strongly urge the Army to 
revise its plan to include this equipment.
      The conferees also direct the Secretary of the Army to 
submit a report, no later than June 15, 2000, that outlines the 
additional costs required to completely equip the ``first to 
fight corps'' with top line equipment and the Army's reasons 
for adopting a plan that deviates from this concept. The 
conferees do not expect the time required to submit this 
additional report to impact on the award of the multi-year 
contract.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROJ ARTY 155MM SADARM M898.................................       54,546            0       30,546       15,000
    Terminate basic SADARM production.......................  ...........      -54,546            0            0
    SADARM Production.......................................  ...........            0      -24,000      -39,546
    (Note: Funds may not be obligated unitl OPTEC has
     certified in writing that 80% reliability has been
     demonstrated)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TACTICAL TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS................................       15,277       20,277       21,277       25,277
    Trailer modernization/life cycle sustainment............  ...........        5,000            0        5,000
    SLOT....................................................  ...........            0        6,000        5,000
MODIFICATION OF INSERVICE EQUIPMENT.........................       29,769       33,269       29,769       31,769
    HET air-conditioning....................................  ...........        1,500            0        1,000
    Fuel injection test stand upgrade (A8020)...............  ...........        2,000            0        1,000
ACUS MOD PROGRAM (WIN T/T)..................................      109,056      115,956      149,056      155,956
    High speed multiplexers (HSMUX) (Note: Only for the       ...........          900            0          900
     National Guard)........................................
    Facsimile machines (TS-21 Blackjack)....................  ...........        6,000            0        6,000
    AN/TTC-56 Single Shelter Switches.......................  ...........            0       40,000       40,000
Product Improvement Combat Vehicle Crewman..................            0       15,000            0       15,000
    (Note: Senate provided funds in WTCV, A)................  ...........       15,000            0       15,000
INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY PROGRAM-ISSP....................       28,750       39,450       41,250       57,450
    Secure terminal equipment...............................  ...........        2,000        6,000        3,500
    AIRTERM AND MINTERM security devices....................  ...........        8,700            0        8,700
    Assessment of biometrics systems (Note: Only MX5T         ...........            0       15,000       15,000
     biometrics computer prototype, pilot, and study for
     combing and consolidating biometrics and other
     information assurance technologies)....................
    Portable interruptible universal power supply system....  ...........            0        1,500        1,500
WW TECH CON IMP PROG (WWTCIP)...............................        2,891        2,891        7,991        2,891
    Camp Shelby (Note: Funds are provided under the heading   ...........            0        5,100            0
     Combat Training Services Support)......................
NIGHT VISION DEVICES........................................       20,977       67,777       70,977       60,977
    25mm gen III tubes......................................  ...........       25,000            0       18,000
    Night vision goggles (AN/PVS-7D)........................  ...........       10,000            0        8,000
    AN/PEQ-2A TPIALS devices................................  ...........        5,200            0        3,500
    AN/PAQ-4C infrared aiming lights........................  ...........        6,600            0        3,500
    Senate add for ``suggested'' items......................  ...........            0       50,000            0
    AN/PAS 13 (Note: Senate included item in report           ...........            0            0        3,500
     language)..............................................
    AN/VAS-5 drivers vision enhancer (Note: Senate include    ...........            0            0        3,500
     item in report language)...............................
MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (TAC SURV)..............................        6,533       29,533       14,633       25,633
    Firefinder--additional systems..........................  ...........       23,000            0       11,000
    Firefinder modifications................................  ...........            0        8,100        8,100
STRIKER-COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM..........................       12,307       12,307       22,307       22,307
    Striker hmmwv--combat laser teams.......................  ...........            0        5,000        5,000
    Striker test program sets...............................  ...........            0        5,000        5,000
MANEUVER CONTROL SYSTEM (MCS)...............................       52,049       10,000       30,349       25,000
    Program delay...........................................  ...........      -27,049            0       -5,349
    Transfer to PE 0203759A.................................  ...........      -15,000      -21,700      -21,700
AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.............................      138,607      176,607      138,607      154,607
    Ammunition AIT..........................................  ...........       15,000            0       10,000
    National Guard Distance Learning........................  ...........       15,000            0            0
    National Guard Distance Learning Courseware.............  ...........        8,000            0        6,000
PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (C-E)...............................          378        2,878          378        2,878
    Tobyhanna (Note: Only for production base support)......  ...........        2,500            0        2,500
HEAVY DRY SUPT BRIDGE SYSTEM................................       13,980       17,980       13,980       15,480
    Vehicular intercommunications system (AN/VIC-3) (Note:    ...........        4,000            0        1,500
     Senate added funds in WTCV)............................
DISTRIBUTION SYS, PET & WATER...............................       10,716       13,716       10,716       13,716
    Tactical water purification systems (Note: Senate         ...........        3,000            0        3,000
     provided funds in Water Purification Sys)..............
WATER PURIFICATION SYS......................................       10,396       10,396       13,396       10,396
    3,000 gallon water purification system (Note: Funds       ...........            0        3,000            0
     moved to Distribution Systems, Pet and Water)..........
COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL......................................       25,250       40,250       29,250       36,250
    Advance surgical suite for trauma.......................  ...........       15,000            0        8,000
    LSTAT...................................................  ...........            0        4,000        3,000
GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.............................       78,639       81,639       78,639       79,639
    Small generators........................................  ...........          500            0            0
    5-60k generators........................................  ...........        2,500            0        1,000
COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT.............................        2,450        9,050       12,450       17,550
    JTRC MOUT instrumentation...............................  ...........        6,600        3,000        3,000
    DFIRST pilot program....................................  ...........            0        7,000        7,000
    Camp Shelby (Note: Senate provided funds under WWTCIP)..  ...........            0            0        5,100
TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM.................................       67,374       75,124       70,874       72,874
    GUARDFIST (Note: Only for the National Guard)...........  ...........        3,750            0        2,000
    BEAMHIT.................................................  ...........        4,000            0        1,000
    Improved moving target simulator........................  ...........            0        3,500        2,500
MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-3)....................       24,852       39,352       32,852       41,852
    D-7 Dozer service life extension program (Note: Only for  ...........       10,000            0       10,000
     the National Guard)....................................
    Laser leveling equipment................................  ...........        4,500            0        3,000
    Commercial Equipment SLEP...............................  ...........            0        8,000        4,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   family of medium tactical vehicles

      The conferees support the Army's competition strategy and 
their desire to engage in practices which seek to lower 
acquisition costs and improve the quality of the Family of 
Medium Tactical Vehicle truck. Additionally, the conferees 
understand that the Army must use funds appropriated for the 
FMTV program to establish and conduct any competition that will 
determine the future producers of FMTV trucks. The conferees 
direct that there be no delay in the competition for follow-on 
FMTV contract awards.
      The conferees direct the Secretary of Army to develop an 
acquisition strategy using competitive procedures for the next 
FMTV production contract based on, but not limited to, a 
validated FMTV technical data package which will serve as the 
baseline for the FMTV configuration. Furthermore, the conferees 
direct the Army to provide a report on the status of the 
acquisition strategy no later than March 15, 2000.

                   global combat support system--army

      The conferees are concerned about the Department's 
tendency to begin fielding an information technology system 
prior to the system actually passing Milestone III. Therefore 
the conferees direct the Army not to spend $11,900,000 of the 
funds provided in Other Procurement, Army for the Global Combat 
Support System--Army until after the system has received 
Milestone III approval.

            pacific mobile emergency radio system (PACMERS)

      The conferees are concerned that the existing emergency 
radio capability of the Pacific Command may have become an 
inadequate stovepipe system, consisting mainly of analog 
technology non-interoperable with the new and emergency 
technologies used by other federal, State and local 
governments. The maintenance and operation of existing 
equipment is no longer feasible nor cost effective.
      The proposed follow-on system, the Pacific Mobile 
Emergency Radio Systems (PACMERS), will allow total 
interoperability with all military services, federal law 
enforcement, and State and local agencies. PACMERS will provide 
the capabilities to insure emergency communications for first-
responders to weapons of mass destruction and counter-terrorism 
activities, consequence management, as well as other situations 
derived by civil disobedience or natural disaster. The 
capabilities of PACMERS will support Presidential Directives 62 
and 63.
      True cost savings will be realized by utilization of a 
total turn-key, leased system, which will negate government 
risk associated with the maintenance, technological 
obsolescence, and capital investment of a procured system. The 
anticipated cost-savings and economies of scale associated with 
the anticipated enhancements of PACMERS are of great interest 
to the conferees. In an expression of support for the PACMERS 
system concept, the Department of Defense is encouraged to 
accelerate installation, leading to a full operational 
capability as soon as is feasible.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EA-6 SERIES.................................................      161,047      272,047      201,047      240,047
    Modified Band 9/10 (7/8) jammers........................  ...........            0       25,000       18,000
    Night vision devices....................................  ...........       31,000       15,000       31,000
    Simulators..............................................  ...........       60,000            0       30,000
    Refurbish test aircraft to operational configuration....  ...........       20,000            0            0
F-18 SERIES.................................................      308,789      281,789      300,589      311,789
    F-18A AN/APG-73 RUG avionics upgrade for ECP 583........  ...........            0       23,600       23,600
    F-18C AN/APG-73 RUG avionics upgrade....................  ...........            0       15,200       15,200
    Allowance for correction of deficiencies................  ...........            0      -20,000      -10,000
    ATFLIR premature award..................................  ...........      -27,000      -27,000      -27,000
    Joint helmet mounted cueing system......................  ...........            0            0        2,000
SH-60 SERIES................................................       56,824       60,324       60,324       57,824
    AQF-13F dipping sonar...................................  ...........        3,500        7,500        5,000
    Integrated mechanical diagnostic system delay...........  ...........            0       -4,000       -4,000
H-1 SERIES..................................................        6,339       16,339       18,839       15,339
    AN/AQQ-22 thermal imaging system........................  ...........       10,000       10,000        8,000
    Improved engine torque pressure system..................  ...........            0        2,500        1,000
EP-3 SERIES.................................................       27,433       44,433       27,433       39,433
    Specific emitter identification/LPI.....................  ...........       12,000            0       12,000
    Assessment study for additional sensors.................  ...........        5,000            0            0
P-3 SERIES..................................................      276,202      361,202      300,402      342,202
    Additional AIP modification kits........................  ...........       60,000       24,200       48,000
    Lightweight environmentally sealed parachutes...........  ...........        5,000            0        3,000
    Advanced digital recorders..............................  ...........        5,000            0        3,000
    Specific emitter identification.........................  ...........       15,000            0       12,000
E-2 SERIES..................................................       28,201       55,101       28,201       76,101
    Hawkeye 2000 upgrades...................................  ...........            0            0       24,000
    Lightweight environmentally sealed parachutes...........  ...........        5,000            0        2,000
    Cooperative engagement capability.......................  ...........       21,900            0       21,900
COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT........................................       50,584       58,584       50,584       54,584
    AN/ALR-67A(V)2 radar warning receivers..................  ...........        6,000            0        3,000
    AN/APR-39 radar warning receivers.......................  ...........        2,000            0        1,000
COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.....................................      413,732      379,782      416,732      380,932
    Consolidated Avionics Support System....................  ...........       -2,900            0            0
    High pressure pure air generators.......................  ...........        3,750            0            0
    Jet start units.........................................  ...........      -35,800            0      -35,800
    Direct support squadron readiness training..............  ...........        1,000        3,000        3,000
WAR CONSUMABLES.............................................       11,683       11,683       14,183       14,783
    High pressure pure air generators.......................  ...........            0        2,500        3,100
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 av-8b

      The conferees agree to provide an additional $10,000,000 
for AV-8B advance procurement and encourage the Department of 
the Navy to budget for at least 16 additional remanufactured 
AV-8B aircraft starting in fiscal year 2001, at the end of the 
current multi-year contract. Additional aircraft are needed by 
the Marine Corps to maintain its inventory level until the 
Joint Strike Fighter is fielded.

          advanced tactical air reconnaissance system (atars)

      The conferees agree that no reduction should be applied 
to the ATARS program. Additionally, the conferees agree that 50 
percent of the fiscal year 2000 funding shall not be obligated 
until the Operational Evaluation is complete.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JSOW........................................................      154,913      135,913      154,913      115,613
    Delay BLU-108 variant...................................  ...........      -39,300            0      -39,300
    Baseline variant........................................  ...........       20,300            0            0
SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS......................................          880          880          880        2,380
    MK-43 machine guns......................................  ...........            0      (3,000)        1,500
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT..................................       67,516       87,516       86,516      100,516
    WSN-7B ring laser gyroscopes............................  ...........            0       15,000       15,000
    WQN-2 doppler sonar velocity logs.......................  ...........       10,000            0        5,000
    Thermal imagers for MSC ships...........................  ...........            0        4,000        3,000
    Computer aided dead reckoning tracers...................  ...........       10,000            0       10,000
ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M.......................................      126,133      154,533      132,633      132,133
    Afloat force protection.................................  ...........       24,400            0            0
    Integrated condition assessment system..................  ...........        4,000        6,500        6,000
RADAR SUPPORT...............................................            0       22,300       16,000       20,000
    AN/BPS-15H/15J/16 submarine navigation radar upgrade....  ...........        8,000        8,000        8,000
    AN/SPS-73 surface search radar..........................  ...........       14,300        8,000       12,000
UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..........................        2,605       11,205        2,605        8,605
    Surface ship torpedo defense (Note: In addition to the    ...........        8,600            0        6,000
     directives in the House report, the conferees agree
     that up to $2,000,000 of the funds provided shall be
     available for the distributed engineering capability
     that captures the SSTD products in a simulation-based
     acquisition toolset both to support the system
     integration with large deck engineering activities and
     to provide an affordable, cost-efficient approach for
     system acquisition.)...................................
NAVY TACTICAL DATA SYSTEM...................................            0       25,000            0       22,500
    LHA combat display console upgrades.....................  ...........       20,000            0       20,000
    Display emulators for land based sites..................  ...........        5,000            0        2,500
OTHER TRAINING EQUIPMENT....................................       44,229       54,229       44,229       51,429
    BFTT air traffic control trainers for aircraft carriers.  ...........        5,800            0        3,000
    BFTT electronic warfare trainers........................  ...........        4,200            0        4,200
TADIX-B:....................................................        6,248       23,548        6,248       20,548
    Joint Tactical Terminals--Navy (Note: Funds are only for  ...........       17,300  ...........       14,300
     procurement of joint tactical terminals and/or common
     integrated broadcast service-module upgrade kits.).....
ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M.......................................        5,206       10,206        5,206        9,206
    Shipboard display emulators for surface ships...........  ...........        5,000            0        4,000
SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT...........................       85,368       53,268       85,368       83,668
    Submarine high data rate antennas.......................  ...........      -30,400            0            0
    Submarine antenna distribution system...................  ...........       -1,700            0       -1,700
AN/SSQ-62 (DICASS)..........................................       17,111       17,711       20,111       16,711
    Unit price savings based on FY 99 actual costs..........  ...........       -4,400            0       -4,400
    Additional sonobuoys....................................  ...........        5,000        3,000        4,000
WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.............................       12,166       12,166       23,166       23,166
    Mobile remote emitter simulator.........................  ...........            0        6,000        6,000
    PMRF upgrades...........................................  ...........            0        5,000        5,000
AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT.......................................       17,053       23,053       35,153       37,053
    Omni IV/V night vision goggles..........................  ...........            0       18,100       14,000
    Inertial reels..........................................  ...........        6,000            0        6,000
AIRBORNE MINE COUNTERMEASURES...............................       40,455       40,455       40,455       31,502
    Combat Survivor Evader Locator..........................  ...........  ...........  ...........       -8,953
AEGIS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....................................       86,668       93,668       86,668       91,668
    CAST lesson authoring system............................  ...........        2,000            0        1,000
    Wireless sensors........................................  ...........        5,000            0        4,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GENERAL PURPOSE ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIP.......................        7,863        7,863        9,863       10,663
    k-band test obstrucation pairing system.................  ...........            0        2,000            0
    k-band test obstrucation pairing system and its           ...........            0        (800)        2,800
     associated range instrumentation for the USMCR.........
FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.....................................        2,445        7,645        6,445        7,945
    Chemical Biological Incident Response Team..............  ...........            0        4,000        3,000
    Small unit biological detector..........................  ...........        5,200            0        2,500
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             Communications and Electronics Infrastructure

      The conferees recommend an increase of $45,000,000 to the 
Communications and Electronics Infrastructure line for the 
upgrading and replacement of key information transfer 
components located inside buildings on Marine Corps bases/
stations, to include Camp Smith, Barstow, 29 Palms, Camp 
Pendleton, and Quantico.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
F-16 C/D (MYP)..............................................      252,610      350,610      302,610      245,610
    Excess ECO and NRE......................................  ...........      -17,000  ...........       -7,000
    Additional aircraft.....................................  ...........      115,000       50,000            0
C-130J......................................................       30,618       17,718       54,818       46,818
    Spares and modifications................................  ...........  ...........       24,200       12,100
    Transfer ICS to O&M.....................................  ...........      -12,900  ...........  ...........
    Simulator upgrade.......................................  ...........  ...........  ...........        4,100
JPATS.......................................................       88,232      106,332      142,232      113,232
    Additional aircraft.....................................  ...........       21,000       54,000       25,000
    Transfer ICS to O&M.....................................  ...........       -2,900  ...........            0
E-8C........................................................      280,265      468,465      280,265      231,465
    Funds budgeted for shutdown.............................  ...........      -13,000  ...........      -13,000
    Refurbishment cost savings based on acquisition of        ...........      -23,000  ...........      -10,000
     German VIP aircraft....................................
    Transfer ICS to separate line...........................  ...........      -25,800  ...........      -25,800
PREDATOR UAV................................................       38,003       58,003       38,003       58,003
    Additional air vehicles and other support...............  ...........       20,000  ...........       20,000
B-1B........................................................      130,389      147,039      121,989      127,039
    Excess Link 16 funds....................................  ...........       -8,350  ...........       -8,350
    Delays in Block E Computer Upgrade Program..............  ...........  ...........       -8,400            0
    Conventional Bomb Modules...............................  ...........       25,000  ...........        5,000
F-15........................................................      263,490      321,818      255,190      307,990
    Excess funds for APG-63 radar nonrecurring..............  ...........      -22,000      -28,300      -20,000
    Excess funds for mods per GAO...........................  ...........       -8,672  ...........       -3,000
    E-Kit engine upgrades for the Air National Guard........  ...........       25,000       20,000       20,000
    E-Kit engine upgrades for the active....................  ...........       25,000  ...........       20,000
    Fighter data link (active)..............................  ...........       21,000  ...........       10,000
    Fighter data line (guard)...............................  ...........       18,000     (17,500)       17,500
F-16........................................................      249,536      295,536      294,936      283,036
    Unjustified modification cost growth....................  ...........       -7,100  ...........            0
    Litening II.............................................  ...........       30,000  ...........            0
    600 gallon fuel tanks...................................  ...........  ...........        4,000        2,500
    Onboard oxygen generating system (OBOGS)................  ...........  ...........        5,000        3,000
    Digital Terrain System (DTS)............................  ...........       12,000       12,000       10,000
    Theater Airborne Reconnaissance System (TARS)...........  ...........  ...........       13,500        7,000
    F-16 digital engine control & engine modifications......  ...........       11,100       10,900       11,000
C-17A.......................................................       95,643       93,543       99,143       97,043
    Unjustified cost growth in electronic flight control....  ...........       -2,100  ...........       -2,100
    C-17 maintenance trainer and cargo compartment trainer..  ...........  ...........        3,500        3,500
T-38........................................................       94,487       43,987       94,487       43,987
    Schedule delays in Avionics Upgrade Program.............  ...........      -50,000  ...........      -50,000
    Engine program..........................................  ...........         -500  ...........         -500
    Note: The Conferees agree that the Air Force may enter
     into a low rate production contract for the Avionics
     Upgrade Program
C-130.......................................................      207,646      165,546      207,646      167,296
    Transfer to RDTEAF for Avionics Modernization Program...  ...........      -38,600  ...........      -38,600
    Excess ECO funding in Airlift Defensive Systems.........  ...........       -3,500  ...........       -1,750
C-135.......................................................      347,088      552,988      347,088      448,988
    KC-135 reengine for Air National Guard..................  ...........      208,000  ...........      104,000
    Excessive cost growth in Pacer Crag installs............  ...........       -2,100  ...........       -2,100
DARP........................................................      138,436      302,936      198,436      237,736
    Additional RC-135 reenginings...........................  ...........       60,000       60,000       60,000
    TAWS on RC-135 Rivet Joint..............................  ...........       17,300  ...........       10,800
    SYERS on U-2............................................  ...........        9,000  ...........        5,000
    Common Data Link on U-2.................................  ...........        5,000  ...........        3,500
    Quick Reaction Capabilities for RC-135 Rivet Joint......  ...........       13,400  ...........       10,000
    U-2 upgrades/cockpit and defensive systems..............  ...........       22,000  ...........       10,000
    Program transfer from GDIP..............................  ...........       37,800  ...........            0
    U-2 Defensive System Modernization......................  ...........  ...........     (10,000)            0
E-3.........................................................      124,061       94,561      124,061      105,061
    Proper phasing of SATCOM integration funding............  ...........       -6,000  ...........       -6,000
    Restructured computer upgrade program...................  ...........      -16,700  ...........      -14,200
    Accelerate Block 30/35 installations....................  ...........       11,200  ...........       11,200
    Excess RSIP NRE, ECO, and OGC funds.....................  ...........       -6,000  ...........       -3,000
    Proper phasing of RSIP SE/PM funding....................  ...........      -12,000  ...........       -7,000
PASSENGER SAFETY MODIFICATIONS..............................            0       75,000       40,000       48,000
    TAWS (Note: Funding includes, but is not limited to       ...........       40,000  ...........       30,000
     upgrade of the KC-135).................................
    GATM....................................................  ...........       35,000  ...........       18,000
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.....................................      420,921      420,921      355,921      423,421
    C-12 Spare Parts........................................  ...........  ...........        5,000        2,500
    Program reduction.......................................  ...........  ...........      -70,000            0
COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....................................      171,369      183,369      181,369      177,697
    Modular Airborne Firefighting System for ANG............  ...........        6,000  ...........        3,500
    Common, multi-platform boresight equipment..............  ...........        1,400       10,000        3,000
    LANTIRN Support and Bomb Damage Assessment..............  ...........       10,600  ...........        5,300
    Self Generating Nitrogen Servicing Cart.................  ...........        4,000  ...........        2,000
    JSECTS production delayed to FY 2001....................  ...........       -7,472  ...........       -7,472
    CAPRE...................................................  ...........       -2,528  ...........            0
B-2A........................................................      106,882       75,482      106,882       67,482
    B-2 shelters............................................  ...........       16,200  ...........        8,200
    Transfer ICS to separate line...........................  ...........      -47,600  ...........      -47,600
F-16 POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT................................       30,010       50,010       30,010       45,010
    IAIS Active.............................................  ...........       10,000  ...........        5,000
    IAIS Guard..............................................  ...........        5,000  ...........        5,000
    IAIS Reserves...........................................  ...........        5,000  ...........        5,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              joint stars

      The conferees agree with the Senate direction regarding 
the initiation of a pilot program to re-engine the JSTARS fleet 
with leased commercial engines. The conferees note that lease 
authority applies only to JSTARS and not to KC-135 aircraft.

               on-board oxygen generating system (obogs)

      The House recedes to the Senate with modifications. The 
conferees concur with the Senate report language directing the 
Secretary of the Air Force to provide a report on compliance 
with previous Congressional direction regarding installation of 
OBOGS on various aircraft, including implementation costs and 
potential cost savings. The Senate report further directs that 
OBOGS purchases from qualified vendors, including small 
business, be conducted on a competitive basis. The conferees 
fully support the competitive procurement of OBOGS for those 
aircraft models for which OBOGS procurement action has not been 
initiated.

                          c-135 modifications

      The conferees have provided $104,000,000 for re-engining 
of KC-135 tankers. The conferees are aware of multiple options 
for re-engining KC-135 aircraft. A number of options exist, 
including a new proposal to shift modified C-141 engines to 
these aircraft.
      The conferees believe that the KC-135 re-engining program 
should proceed under a comprehensive plan based on requirements 
and cost, utilizing competition and commercial practices to the 
maximum extent practicable. The conferees direct the Department 
of Defense to analyze all options for re-engining KC-135 
aircraft. The conferees direct that the plan assess the annual 
and total cost of all options and the range of capability 
improvements offered by each option. The conferees direct that 
this plan be provided to the congressional defense committees 
no later than February 25, 2000, and prior to the obligation of 
the added funds.

                defense airborne reconnaissance program

      The conferees agree to provide $10,800,000 for the 
Theater Airborne Warning System (TAWS) on the RC-135 Rivet 
Joint. The conferees direct that no more than fifty (50) 
percent of these funds may be obligated prior to the Secretary 
of the Air Force providing a letter to the congressional 
defense committees which certifies that the TAWS program is 
fully funded in the fiscal year 2001-2006 budget submitted to 
Congress and identifies all of the outyear funds budgeted for 
the TAWS program.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JOINT STANDOFF WEAPON.......................................       79,981       60,981       79,981       40,681
    Delay procurement of BLU-108 variant....................  ...........      -39,300  ...........      -39,300
    Baseline variant........................................  ...........       20,300  ...........            0
AMRAAM......................................................       97,279      190,279       97,279       90,279
    Transfer funds to RDTEAF for P31 phase III..............  ...........       -7,000  ...........       -7,000
    Procure additional AMRAAMs..............................  ...........      100,000  ...........            0
MM III MODIFICATIONS........................................      242,960      277,960      282,960      280,460
    Guidance Replacement Program............................  ...........       40,000       40,000       40,000
    Pricing of Propulsion Replacement Program...............  ...........       -5,000  ...........       -2,500
GLOBAL POSITIONING (SPACE)..................................      139,049      103,349      139,049      126,849
    Rubidium Clock Build....................................  ...........       -5,500  ...........       -3,000
    Premature GPS Block IIF launch services and on-orbit      ...........      -25,200  ...........      -25,200
     support................................................
    Delays in GPS IIF crosslink.............................  ...........       -5,000  ...........       -5,000
    Satellite Telecommunication Simulator...................  ...........  ...........  ...........       17,000
    EELV Integration........................................  ...........  ...........  ...........        4,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRACTICE BOMBS..............................................       24,325       24,325       24,325       24,325
    Cast Ductile Bomb.......................................  ...........       (6000)  ...........       (3000)
SENSOR FUZED WEAPON.........................................       61,334       73,634       69,334       79,634
    Provide for minimum SFW (baseline variant) sustaining     ...........       12,300        8,000       18,300
     rate...................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THEATER AIR CONTROL SYS IMPROVEMENT.........................       37,917       23,417       31,917       27,917
    Reduced requirements for interface units................  ...........       -8,500  ...........       -4,000
    Transfer to RDTEAF for Expert Missile Tracker...........  ...........       -6,000       -6,000       -6,000
AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.............................       71,173       84,173       71,173       80,173
    SPARES..................................................  ...........       10,000  ...........        6,000
    Battlelab Collaborative Network.........................  ...........        3,000  ...........        3,000
BASE INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE.............................      122,839      179,339      122,839      137,839
    Information assurance...................................  ...........       30,000  ...........       15,000
    Communication infrastructure............................  ...........       26,500  ...........            0
EASTERN/WESTERN RANGE I&M SPACE.............................       83,410      107,910       83,410       83,410
    Air Force identified shortfall in space ranges..........  ...........       27,000  ...........            0
    Transfer ICS to O&M.....................................  ...........       -2,500  ...........            0
MILSATCOM SPACE.............................................       46,257       37,757       46,257       42,257
    Program delays..........................................  ...........       -6,300  ...........       -3,000
    Delay hardware pending software maturity................  ...........       -2,200  ...........       -1,000
BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.....................................       14,035       25,035       14,035       19,535
    Master Cranes for ANG...................................  ...........        5,000  ...........        2,500
    Ultimate building machines for ANG......................  ...........        1,000  ...........          500
    Ultimate building machines for Reserve..................  ...........        1,000  ...........          500
    Laser leveling..........................................  ...........        2,000  ...........        1,000
    Hazardous gas detection equipment.......................  ...........        2,000  ...........        1,000
INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION ACTIVITY............................       40,047       16,247       40,047       49,047
    Cobra Upgrades..........................................  ...........       10,000  ...........        7,000
    Software Development and Training Facility..............  ...........       +4,000  ...........        2,000
    Program transfer to JMIP................................  ...........      -37,800  ...........            0
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              U-2 Program

      The U-2 is the premier tactical reconnaissance asset 
requested by the CINCs around the world. This system of 
aircraft, pilot, ground crew and equipment is tasked daily to 
support military operations, monitor conflicts, and maintain 
peace agreements. The recent NATO campaign in Kosovo, where the 
U-2 provided 24-hour in-theater coverage, showcased the 
capabilities of the system. The conferees understand that the 
U-2 was considered by many to be the ``backbone'' of the 
airborne Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) 
mission in Kosovo.
      The conferees are concerned that the increased number of 
missions, along with the limited number of U-2 aircraft and the 
declining number of qualified pilots in the Air Force, will 
adversely affect the ability of the U-2 to meet future ISR 
requirements.
      Therefore, the conferees request the Secretary of Defense 
submit a report to the defense subcommittees of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations, which addresses the 
following:
            1. The performance and contributions of the U-2 
        aircraft in Operation Allied Force;
            2. The status of qualified U-2 pilots and training 
        needs for new pilots;
            3. The number of U-2 aircraft required to maintain 
        current capabilities, train new pilots, and continue to 
        fulfill the Air Force's high altitude reconnaissance 
        mission; and
            4. The Air Force's plan to sustain the U-2 weapon 
        system, with its multi-sensor payloads, and sensor-to-
        shooter flexible targeting assets until such time as a 
        replacement with equal or greater capability can be 
        operationally fielded.
      This report is due to the Committees within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act.
      The conferees agree to provide a total of $10,000,000 for 
U-2 cockpit and defensive systems. The Air Force should 
prioritize these upgrades and apply the $10,000,000 as 
necessary to meet the most pressing requirements.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD: Procurement investment in High               88,976      166,976       88,976      126,976
 Performance Computing......................................
    [Note: $20,000,000 is only for the Army High Performance  ...........       75,000  ...........       35,000
     Research Center........................................
    Mentor-protege..........................................  ...........        3,000  ...........        3,000
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
DEFENSE SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..................................       47,455       62,455       47,455       62,455
    Electronic Commerce Resource Centers....................  ...........        9,000  ...........        9,000
    [Transfer of $6,000,000 from RDTE, DW for ECRCs.].......  ...........        6,000  ...........        6,000
SOF SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..................................       23,355       30,355       28,355       25,355
    Nightstar binoculars....................................  ...........        7,000  ...........        2,000
    INOD....................................................  ...........  ...........        5,000
CHEMICAL/BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE
INDIVIDUAL PROTECTION.......................................      124,612      125,612      124,612      125,612
    M42 protective mask reclamation.........................  ...........        1,000  ...........        1,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        miscellaneous equipment

      The conferees agree that each of the Chiefs of the 
Reserve and National Guard components should exercise control 
of modernization funds provided in this account including 
aircraft and aircraft modernization. The conferees further 
agree that separate submissions of a detailed assessment of its 
modernization priorities by the component commanders is 
required to be submitted to the defense committees. The 
conferees expect the component commanders to give priority 
consideration to the following items: Modular airborne fire 
fighting systems, F-16 ALR-56M radar warning receivers, ALR-56 
radar warning receivers, Deployable rapid assembly shelters, 
FAASV ammunition carriers, Mobile radar approach control 
(RAPCON), F/A-18 modernization including avionics and 
engineering upgrades, Bradley AO-A2ODS, KC-135 reengining, 
Paladin, P-3 modernization including P-3C Update III BMUP Kits, 
Night vision devices and goggles, CH-47 helicopters, AN/PEQ-2A 
TPIALs, AN/PAQ-4C Infrared aiming lights, Master crane aircraft 
component hoisting systems, Aluminum mesh gas tank liners for 
C-130 aircraft and Army ground vehicles, A/B FIST 21 training 
systems, CH-60S combat search and rescue kits, Super scooper 
aircraft, C-40A aircraft, C-22 replacement aircraft, Secure 
communications and data systems, CH-60 helicopters, M270A1 
long-range surveillance launchers, AN/AVR-2A(V) laser detecting 
sets, ALQ-184(V)9 electronic countermeasure pods, Extended cold 
weather clothing systems, HEMTT trucks, Multi-role bridge 
companies, Medium tactical wreckers, Rough terrain container 
cranes, CH-47 cargo compartment expanded range fuel systems, C-
38A aircraft, C-17 communication suite upgrades, Internal 
crashworthy fuel cells, DFIRST, UH-60Q kits, MLRS launchers, 
Meteorological measuring systems, Improved target simulators, 
C-17 Maintenance training systems, Multiple launch rocket 
systems, Onboard oxygen generating systems field evaluation, 
LITENING II targeting pod systems, F-16 mid-life upgrade, 
SINCGARS radios, UH-1 modernization, UH-60 upgrades, C-130E, C-
130 H2/H3 ATS-Eng. changes, C-130 Carry-on SADL, F-16 color 
display, F-16 SADL ``D'', B-1 weapons modules, Aircraft 
lighting systems, Logistics service support, JANUS, M915A4 
Upgrade kits, Rough terrain container handlers, E-2C SATCOM, 
ALR-67 radar warning receivers, KC-130T avionics modernization, 
Bradley fighting vehicle upgrades, F-15 modernization, C-130J 
support, MT ANG-RACTS pods rangeless training systems, HMMWV 
striker vehicles, Tactical construction equipment, Eagle vision 
antennas, Advanced surgical suite for trauma casualties, Modern 
burning units, AN/TMQ41 meteorological measuring systems, 
Vehicle intercom systems, Air defense brigade automated command 
and control equipment, Avenger table top trainers (ATTT), 
Ground bases sensors for Avenger battalions, Support equipment 
for Patriot missile air defense battalions and Sandbagger.

                  support to non-profit organizations

      The conferees have included a general provision (Section 
8127) which allows National Guard units to assist with the use 
or transportation of equipment to youth, social, fraternal, and 
other non-profit organizations, and allows the Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau to waive payment for this assistance. The 
conferees urge the Secretary of Defense to review current 
regulations and policy guidelines concerning the leasing of 
equipment to non-profit organizations, and provide a report to 
the defense committees no later than June 1, 2000, on the 
implementation of this waiver authority.

                         defense production act

      The conference agreement on items addressed by either the 
House or the Senate is as follows: $3,000,000 only for 
microwave tubes.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Budget        House        Senate      Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES................................      125,613      125,613       126,613       126,613
    Cold regions military research.......................  ...........            0         1,000         1,000
    Vehicle mobility research............................  ...........       (3,000)            0        (3,000)
UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTERS.................       47,066       47,066        69,366        65,066
    Adv and interactive displays consortium..............  ...........            0         1,300         1,000
    Basic research in counter terrorism..................  ...........            0        15,000        12,000
    Electro and hypervelocity physics research...........  ...........            0         3,000         2,000
    National Automotive Center...........................  ...........            0         3,000         3,000
MISSILE TECHNOLOGY.......................................       32,892       43,392        44,092        48,392
    Scramjet.............................................  ...........        2,000         2,000         2,000
    Aero-optic evaluation center.........................  ...........        5,000             0         3,000
    GPS/IMU..............................................  ...........        4,000             0         2,500
COMBAT VEHICLE AND AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY.................       39,749       42,249        53,249        55,249
    ``Smart truck'' initiative...........................  ...........            0         3,500         3,500
    Full spectrum active protection......................  ...........        2,500             0         2,000
    Alternative vehicle propulsion.......................  ...........            0        10,000        10,000
BALLISTICS TECHNOLOGY....................................       36,287       42,287        36,287        42,287
    Electro-thermal chemical technology..................  ...........       (2,500)            0        (2,500)
    Electromagnetic (EM) gun pulsed power technology.....  ...........        6,000             0         6,000
WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY.........................       34,687       37,187        34,687        36,687
    Electro-rheological fluid recoil system..............  ...........        1,500             0         1,000
    Extended range DPICM mortar munition, XM984..........  ...........        1,000             0         1,000
ELECTRONICS AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES.......................       25,796       37,596        31,396        37,096
    Display Performance and Environmental Evaluation       ...........        5,000        (5,000)        3,000
     Laboratory..........................................
    (Note: House title this project: ARL, Electronics and
     Electronic Devices).
    Improved high rate alkaline cell.....................  ...........        1,000         1,000         1,000
    Low cost reusable alkaline manganese-zinc............  ...........        1,400         1,400         1,400
    Rechargeable coin cells..............................  ...........          600           600           600
    Lithium carbon monfluoride coin cell.................  ...........          400           400           400
    ``AA'' zinc battery..................................  ...........          400           700           400
    Diesel fuel reformer technology......................  ...........        3,000             0         3,000
    Hybrid fuel cell.....................................  ...........            0         1,500         1,500
COUNTERMINE SYSTEMS......................................       10,321       14,121        13,121        14,521
    Humanitarian demining................................  ...........            0         1,800         1,800
    Non-linear, acoustic technology......................  ...........            0         1,000         1,000
    Standoff, multi-sensor mine system...................  ...........        3,800             0         1,400
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY.........................       12,758       81,258        24,758        80,258
    Plasma Energy Pyrolysis system.......................  ...........        9,000         8,000         8,000
    Phyto-remediation in arid lands......................  ...........            0         3,000         3,000
    Sustainable Green Manufacturing Initiative...........  ...........        7,000             0         5,500
    Computer based land management model (TRIES).........  ...........        3,000         1,000         2,000
    Commercialization of Technologies to Lower Defense     ...........        8,000             0         7,000
     Costs...............................................
    Demanufacturing of Electronic Equipment for Reuse and  ...........       13,000             0        13,000
     Recycling...........................................
    Demanufacturing--Recycling site......................  ...........        3,000             0         3,000
    Corrosion measurement and control project............  ...........        9,000             0         9,000
    Range Safe technology demonstration..................  ...........       10,000             0        10,000
    Watervliet Arsenal...................................  ...........        4,500        (6,000)        4,000
    Vessel plating technology............................  ...........        2,000             0         1,000
    NDCEE Pollution Prevention Initiative................  ...........            0        (3,000)        2,000
MILITARY ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY..........................       41,085       61,085        45,385        47,885
    GEOSAR...............................................  ...........       15,000             0             0
    Climate change fuel cells............................  ...........        5,000             0         2,500
    University Partnering for Ops support................  ...........            0         3,000         3,000
    Cold regions R&D.....................................  ...........            0         1,300         1,300
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY.......................................       70,136      169,636        87,636       176,636
    Disaster Relief and Emergency Medical Services         ...........       10,000         5,000        10,000
     (DREAMS)............................................
    Center for Innovative Minimally Invasive Therapy       ...........       12,000        10,000        10,000
     (CIMIT).............................................
    Osteoporosis and bone disease research...............  ...........        5,000         2,500         4,000
    Polynitroxylated hemoglobin..........................  ...........        4,000             0         2,000
    Tissue regeneration for combat casualty care (TRC3)..  ...........        2,500             0         2,500
    Informatics-based medical emergency decision tools...  ...........        4,500             0         4,500
    Ovarian cancer.......................................  ...........       15,000             0        12,000
    Molecular Genetics and Musculoskeletal Research        ...........        6,000             0         6,000
     Program (Note: $6,000,000 is only to continue the
     Army Molecular Genetics and Musculoskeletal Research
     Program.)...........................................
    National Medical Testbed.............................  ...........       15,000             0        15,000
    Synchrotron-based high energy radiation beam cancer    ...........        5,000             0         5,000
     treatment (Note: $5,000,000 is only to continue the
     Army synchrotron-based radiaion beam cancer
     treatment program.).................................
    Blood research (Note: $5,000,000 is only for improved  ...........        5,500             0         5,500
     blood products and safety in systems compatible with
     military field use.)................................
    Neurofibromatosis....................................  ...........       15,000             0        15,000
    Dye targeted laser fusion............................  ...........            0        (4,000)        3,000
    Neurotoxin Exposure Treatment Program (NETRP)........  ...........            0             0        10,000
    Eye research (Note: Only to support a collaborative,   ...........            0             0         2,000
     multi-disciplinary effort to achieve advancements in
     low-vision research)................................
WARFIGHTER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY...........................       31,287       42,773        31,287        45,287
    Transfer from other procurement (CIDS)...............  ...........        9,486             0         7,000
    Army metrology.......................................  ...........        2,000             0         1,000
    Biosystems technology (Note: Senate provided funds in  ...........            0             0         6,000
     RDT&E, Defense-wide)................................
MEDICAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY..............................       10,539       69,339        35,039        74,539
    Center for Prostate Disease Research at WRAMC........  ...........            0         7,500         7,500
    Intravenous membrane oxygenator......................  ...........            0         1,000         1,000
    Volume Angio CAT.....................................  ...........            0         6,000         6,000
    Diabetes Project (Joslin)............................  ...........        7,000         5,000         7,000
    Diabetes Project (Pittsburgh)........................  ...........        7,000         5,000         7,000
    Gallo Cancer Center..................................  ...........        5,000             0         3,000
    Alcoholism research..................................  ...........        7,000             0         7,000
    HIV research.........................................  ...........       10,000             0        10,000
    LSTAT................................................  ...........        7,500             0         3,500
    Advanced cancer detection............................  ...........        3,500             0         3,500
    Laser vision correction..............................  ...........        4,000             0         2,000
    Enzymatic wound disinfectant.........................  ...........        3,800             0         2,000
    Epidermolysis Bullosa................................  ...........        1,000             0         1,000
    Smart aortic arch catheter...........................  ...........        3,000             0         1,500
    Recombinant vaccine research.........................  ...........            0        (2,000)        2,000
WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY................       39,893       67,643        39,893        58,643
    Precision guided mortar munitions....................  ...........        8,000             0         5,000
    Warhead and Energetics Center of Excellence..........  ...........        5,000             0         5,000
    120mm, one-tenth training round......................  ...........        1,800             0         1,000
    Future direct support weapons system.................  ...........        5,000             0         5,000
    Microchip lasers.....................................  ...........          750             0           750
    Future combat vehicle................................  ...........        4,000             0         2,000
    Program increase.....................................  ...........        3,000             0             0
COMBAT VEHICLE AND AUTOMOTIVE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY........       90,941      137,441       103,941       131,941
    Advanced Combat Automotive Technology................  ...........       10,000             0         3,000
    Silicon carbide fiber research.......................  ...........       13,500             0         7,000
    Mobile parts hospital................................  ...........        6,000             0         3,000
    Diesel engine........................................  ...........        6,000             0         6,000
    Composite armor vehicle..............................  ...........        3,000             0         3,000
    Combat vehicle research..............................  ...........        8,000             0         8,000
    (Note: Only for a technology transfer center to
     identify and transfer weight reduction technologies
     and processes for ground vehicles)
    Future Combat vehicle................................  ...........            0         5,000             0
    Improved HMMWV research..............................  ...........            0         8,000         6,000
    Abrams engine (Note: Funds are only to accelerate      ...........            0             0         5,000
     activities for the insertion of a new engine in the
     Abrams fleet).......................................
NIGHT VISION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.........................       36,628       45,628        36,628        42,628
    Helmet mounted sensors for firefighters and damage     ...........        3,000             0         2,000
     control.............................................
    Wire detection and obstacle avoidance................  ...........        5,000             0         3,000
    Lightweight Man-portable Unmanned Aerial Vehicle.....  ...........        1,000             0         1,000
ADVANCED TACTICAL COMPUTER SCIENCE AND SENSOR TECH.......       22,610       27,610        24,610        27,610
    Telemaintenance......................................  ...........        5,000             0         3,000
    Digital situation mapboard...........................  ...........            0         2,000         2,000
ARMY MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (DEM/VAL).......       12,353       24,853        57,553        63,553
    Microelectromechanical (MEMS) systems process          ...........        6,500             0         6,500
     technology..........................................
    Missile systems integration..........................  ...........        3,000             0         3,000
    Aero-acoustic instrumentation........................  ...........        3,000             0         2,000
    Missile Defense Flight Experiment Support............  ...........            0        14,700        14,700
    Tactical High Energy Laser...........................  ...........            0        15,000        10,000
    Acoustic Technology Research.........................  ...........            0         4,000         4,000
    Radar Power Technology...............................  ...........            0         4,000         4,000
    Family of System Simulators..........................  ...........            0         1,500         1,000
    Small, fast, chembio detectors.......................  ...........            0         1,000         1,000
    SMDC Battlelab.......................................  ...........            0         5,000         5,000
ARTILLERY SYSTEMS--DEM VAL...............................      282,937      282,937       282,937       268,137
    Program delay........................................  ...........            0             0       -14,800
NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS--ENG DEV............................       30,644       36,544        30,644        38,644
    Combustion driven eyesafe laser......................  ...........        4,000             0         3,000
    Enhanced night vision goggle.........................  ...........        1,900             0         1,000
    MELIOS--Eyesafe laser range finder...................  ...........  ............  ............        4,000
COMBAT FEEDING, CLOTHING, AND EQUIPMENT..................      110,829       84,329        84,329        60,829
    Landwarrior..........................................  ...........      -26,500       -26,500       -50,000
TENCAP...................................................       70,940       70,940        70,840        72,440
    Semi-automated Imagery Processor.....................  ...........            0             0         1,500
    (Note: House appropriated fund under Tactical
     Surveillance)
JOINT SURVEILLANCE/TARGET ATTACK RADAR SYSTEM............       11,535       27,535        21,535        26,035
    Common Ground Station--Target Attack Radar...........  ...........       13,000        10,000        13,000
    (Note: $10 million is only for SCDL and other
     programs, $3 million is for the development of new
     requirements).
    Joint service wideband datalink......................  ...........        3,000             0         1,500
WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS--ENG DEV...........................       54,943       73,143        64,143        69,143
    Small arms fire control system.......................  ...........        4,500             0         2,500
    Mortar anti-personnel/anti-material round............  ...........        7,200         7,200         7,200
    M2HB .50 caliber with quick change barrel............  ...........        3,000         2,000         2,000
    M795E1 extended range high explosive base burner.....  ...........        2,500             0         1,500
    Rifle launch munition................................  ...........        1,000             0         1,000
ARTILLERY SYSTEMS--EMD...................................       65,806       65,806        65,806         4,800
    Program slip.........................................  ...........  ............  ............      -61,006
THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT.............................       13,680       13,680        21,380        19,880
    Threat EO/IR simulator...............................  ...........            0         2,500         2,000
    Threat mine simulator................................  ...........            0         1,200         1,200
    Virtual threat simulator.............................  ...........            0         4,000         3,000
CONCEPTS EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM.........................       16,990       19,900        19,990        20,990
    Mounted maneuver battlespace lab.....................  ...........        3,000             0         2,000
    Digital information technology testbed...............  ...........            0         3,000         2,000
ARMY TEST RANGES AND FACILITIES..........................      137,193      147,193       144,693       147,193
    White Sands Missile Range instrumentation............  ...........       10,000         7,500        10,000
    Program reduction....................................  ...........            0        -9,000             0
    General Provision....................................  ...........            0         9,000             0
DOD HIGH ENERGY LASER TEST FACILITY......................       14,320       34,230        28,230        31,230
    HELSTF...............................................  ...........       10,000        14,000        10,000
    Solid state laser....................................  ...........       10,000             0         7,000
MUNITIONS STANDARDIZATION, EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY......       10,537       19,037        16,037        19,037
    Contained detonation technology......................  ...........        3,000         3,000         3,000
    Bluegrass Army depot.................................  ...........        2,500         2,500         2,500
    Cyrofracture disposal of anti-personnel mines........  ...........        3,000             0         3,000
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.................................            0        8,000             0         4,000
    Natural gas boilers..................................  ...........        3,000             0         1,500
    Natural-term climate change fuel cells...............  ...........        5,000             0         2,500
COMBAT VEHICLE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS......................       29,544       42,544        51,944        84,544
    Lightweight vehicle track development................  ...........        2,000             0         1,000
    M1 large area flat panel displays....................  ...........        8,000         8,000         8,000
    VIS AN/VIC-3, cordless...............................  ...........        3,000             0         1,000
    Abrams 1st and 2nd generation health check system....  ...........            0         1,400         1,400
    Abrams legacy fleet on-vehicle diagnostics...........  ...........            0        10,000         9,000
    Abrams test programs sets enhancement................  ...........            0         3,000         3,000
    Bradley IOT&E........................................  ...........            0             0        22,000
    (Note: Funds transferred from WTCV)..................  ...........  ............  ............  ............
    Abrams engine upgrades (Note: Funds are to upgrade/    ...........  ............  ............       10,000
     sustain the existing engine)........................
AIRCRAFT MODIFICATIONS/PROJECT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS......       51,644       51,644        66,644        81,644
    Blackhawk SLEP.......................................  ...........            0        15,000        10,000
    Apache Second Gen FLIR...............................  ...........            0             0        20,000
    (Note: House Provided funds in Aircraft Procurement,
     Army)
END ITEM INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES..............       66,167      102,667        80,167       100,667
    Munitions manufacturing technology...................  ...........       15,000             0        15,000
    Rotary wing sustainment technology...................  ...........        3,000             0         1,500
    Instrumental Factory for Gears (INFAC)...............  ...........        4,000         4,000         4,000
    Totally Integrated Munitions Enterprise (TIME).......  ...........        7,000        10,000         8,500
    Optics Center........................................  ...........        1,500             0         1,500
    Natural gas engine driven air compressors............  ...........        4,000             0         2,000
    Army Sustainment Center (Note: Project was titled      ...........        2,000             0         2,000
     ``Best Practices'' in House Report).................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     warfighter advanced technology

      The conferees support the development of environmentally 
compatible products and services essential for the efficient 
operation of the military and civilian sectors and recognize 
the unique factors in tropical and subtropical regions that 
provide the technological and resource base for these products 
and services. The conferees agree to provide $6,000,000, as 
recommended by the Senate, to pursue the applied research, 
development, and demonstration of biosystems-derived food, 
fiber, textile, biomedical, industrial and environmentally 
compatible products and services to meet military and civilian 
needs under the cooperative management of the U.S. Army Natick 
Soldier Center and the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
Sustainable Economic Activity Program.

                                crusader

      The conferees support the Army's continued development of 
the Crusader advanced field artillery system to address support 
deficiencies. The conferees have reduced funding for the 
Crusader program by $75,806,000 due to schedule delays. The 
conferees do not view the decrement as a lack of support for 
the Crusader program and strongly encourage the Army to 
adequately fund the program in subsequent budget requests.

                 lightweight 155 towed howitzer program

      The conferees are concerned that the Lightweight 155mm 
Towed Howitzer program has been suffering from contractor and 
program deficiencies, which has led to a two-year delay in the 
program. The program has failed to fully utilize the expertise 
of Army arsenals in the development and design of the howitzer. 
Considering the long history of the arsenals in advancing 
howitzer producibility techniques, it is important that they be 
actively involved in the program, especially during the crucial 
EMD/prototype phase to ensure that efficient production 
techniques are designed at the earliest possible stage of the 
program. In addition, the arsenals constitute an important 
resource in providing spare parts and special development items 
for howitzer forces in time of war and national emergencies.
      The conferees direct the Army and the Marine Corps to 
develop a plan to include Rock Island Arsenal in producibility 
and manufacturing aspects of howitzer production, including 
recoil mechanisms and carriages for the Lightweight 155mm Towed 
Howitzer Program and other Army/Marine Corps future towed 
artillery programs. The conferees expect the Army and the 
Marine Corps to issue a report to the Senate and House 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Defense no later than sixty 
days after the enactment of this Act outlining the plan.

                     anti-armor weapons masterplan

      Last year, the conferees directed the Secretary of 
Defense to provide an Anti-Armor Weapons Masterplan with the 
fiscal year 2000 budget request. The plan, which was delivered 
five months after the budget submission, did not address the 
concerns outlined in the statement of the managers. The 
conferees are disappointed in the plan because it showed no 
evidence or future prospects of reducing the number of programs 
being pursued, no evidence of authority or control being 
exercised by OSD, and little evidence of rigorous critique of 
claimed requirements. OSD was directed to submit a report 
``with the purpose of identifying and eliminating excess 
capabilities.'' The report does not outline a strategy for the 
future, but merely justifies the current anti-armor weapons 
budget.
      Therefore the conferees direct the Secretary of Defense 
to provide an analysis with the fiscal year 2001 budget request 
that evaluates the joint effectiveness of the existing anti-
armor weapons in addressing the threat depicted in the defense 
planning guidance and how the planned anti-armor weapons are 
expected to fill shortfalls in current capability in the 
defense planning guidance scenarios. Based on this analysis, 
the Secretary should prioritize the Department's anti-armor 
weapon acquisition programs. The analysis is to be submitted 
with the fiscal year 2001 budget request.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               Budget       House        Senate      Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AIR AND SURFACE LAUNCHED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY...............       37,616       54,616       42,616        51,616
    Free electron laser...................................  ...........        3,000            0             0
    Phased array weather radar............................  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
    Pulse detonation engine technology....................  ...........        4,000        5,000         4,000
SHIP, SUBMARINE & LOGISTICS TECHNOLOGY....................       43,786       64,586       48,786        61,786
    Stainless steel double hull...........................  ...........        5,000        5,000         5,000
    Modernization through remanufacturing and conversion..  ...........        2,000            0             0
    Curved plate double hull technology...................  ...........        8,000            0         8,000
    Bioenvironmental hazards..............................  ...........        1,800            0         1,000
    Three dimensional printing metalworking technology at   ...........        4,000            0         4,000
     Puget Sound..........................................
MARINE CORPS LANDING FORCE TECHNOLOGY.....................       10,534       10,534       15,534        17,534
    Non-traditional military operations...................  ...........            0        5,000         4,000
    Polymer case ammunition...............................  ...........            0       (3,000)        3,000
COMMUNICATIONS, COMMAND AND CONTROL, INTEL, SURVEILLANCE..       68,823       78,073       77,823        82,823
    Hybrid fiberoptic wireless communication technology...  ...........        2,500            0         1,000
    Optically multiplexed wideband radar beamformer.......  ...........        4,700            0         4,000
    Hyperspectal research.................................  ...........            0        4,000         3,000
    UESA signal processing support........................  ...........            0        5,000         5,000
    Optoelectric high definition camera...................  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
HUMAN SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY..................................       30,586       37,086       35,786        36,586
    Coastal cancer control (MUSC).........................  ...........            0        5,000             0
    Retinal pigment laser damage..........................  ...........            0          200             0
    Biological hazard detection system....................  ...........        6,500            0         6,000
MATERIALS, ELECTRONICS AND COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY............       77,957       90,457       92,857       104,107
    Heatshield research...................................  ...........            0        2,000         2,000
    Silicon carbide semiconductor substrates..............  ...........        3,000        2,000         2,000
    Ultra-high thermal conductivity fibers/thermal          ...........        2,500        2,000         2,000
     management materials.................................
    Photomagnetic material research.......................  ...........            0          500           500
    Innovative communications materials...................  ...........            0        2,250         2,000
    Advanced material processing center...................  ...........            0        5,000         5,000
    ADPICAS...............................................  ...........            0        1,150         1,150
    Materials micronization techology.....................  ...........            0            0         2,500
    Engineered wood composite lumber......................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Smart wiring technology...............................  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
    Advanced Composite Materials Processing...............  ...........            0       (3,000)        3,000
ELECTRONIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY.............................       24,659       24,659       37,659        36,159
    Free electron laser...................................  ...........            0       10,000        10,000
    Superconducting waveform generator....................  ...........            0        3,000         1,500
OCEANOGRAPHIC AND ATMOSPHERIC TECHNOLOGY..................       60,334       71,084       62,734        73,084
    Distributed marine environment forecast system........  ...........            0        2,400         2,000
    Autonomous UUV........................................  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
    Completion of PM-10 air quality study.................  ...........          750            0           750
UNDERSEA WARFARE WEAPONRY TECHNOLOGY......................       34,066       39,066       39,066        41,066
    Microelectromechanical systems........................  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
    Computational engineering design......................  ...........            0        3,500         3,500
    SAUVIM................................................  ...........            0        1,500         1,500
    6.25 multimission weapon..............................  ...........        3,000            0         1,000
AIR SYSTEMS AND WEAPONS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY...............       42,046       51,046       42,046        49,046
    Aircraft affordability project (DP-2).................  ...........        5,000            0         4,000
    Note: Conferees direct that within these funds, the
     necessary model unmanned testing, and evaluation must
     be conducted to ensure the aircraft is safe for
     vertical takeoff and transition to normal flight
     before proceeding to full scale or manned aircraft
     tests.
    RAMJET propulsion NAWC China Lake.....................  ...........        4,000            0         3,000
PRECISION STRIKE AND AIR DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY...............       52,580       82,080       52,580        72,580
    Small combatant craft.................................  ...........       18,000            0        12,000
    Note: Funds are only for the purchase, test, and
     evaluation of one high-speed, variable freeboard, low
     radar signature craft and one high effective
     operational speed craft, to be used as test beds for
     integrated low signature technologies to support
     development of littoral warfare tactics.
    Extending the littoral battlespace....................  ...........        7,500            0         6,000
    Hybrid LIDAR/RADAR technology.........................  ...........        4,000            0         2,000
SURFACE SHIP AND SUBMARINE HM&E ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.......       41,515       75,515       57,015        76,515
    Power node control centers............................  ...........        3,000        3,000         3,000
    Project M.............................................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Virtual test bed for advanced electrical ship systems.  ...........        3,000        5,000         5,000
    Composite helicopter hanger...........................  ...........            0        5,000         5,000
    Reconfigurable ship simulation........................  ...........            0        2,500         2,000
    Electromagnetic propulsion systems....................  ...........        3,000       (3,000)        3,000
    High temperature superconducting AC synchronous motor.  ...........        5,000            0         2,000
    Permanent magnet motor................................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Note: $5,000,000 is only to finish development of two
     competing preliminary motor designs, which are to be
     available no later than the end of fiscal year 2000
     so that the technology could be utilized in the DD-21
     program and other Naval platforms.
    Superconducting DC motor..............................  ...........       10,000            0         5,000
MARINE CORPS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION (ATD)......       56,943       62,943       67,943        67,943
    Advanced lightweight grenade launcher.................  ...........        3,000        1,000         2,000
    BURRO.................................................  ...........        3,000        5,000         4,000
    Project Albert........................................  ...........            0        4,000         4,000
    Vehicle technology demonstration......................  ...........            0        1,000         1,000
    Chemical biological incident response force...........  ...........  ...........  ............       (2,000)
MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT (ADVANCED)............................       15,064       81,864       19,564        77,064
    Military dental research..............................  ...........        6,000        3,000         3,000
    Prostate cancer immunotherapy.........................  ...........            0        1,500         1,500
    Bone marrow...........................................  ...........       34,000            0        34,000
    Improved bone marrow transplantation..................  ...........        2,000            0         2,000
    Note: Funds are only for the unrelated donor marrow
     transplantation clinical trials of graft engineering.
    Teleradiology.........................................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Disaster management...................................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Medical readiness telemedicine initiative.............  ...........        9,000            0         9,000
    Rural health..........................................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Naval blood research lab..............................  ...........        5,000            0         2,500
    National biodynamics research.........................  ...........        1,800            0         1,000
MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING ADV TECH DEV.............       20,632       39,632       25,132        40,132
    Integrated manufacturing studies......................  ...........            0        3,000             0
    Remanufacturing and resource recovery.................  ...........        3,000            0         2,000
    T-STAR................................................  ...........            0        1,500         1,500
    Advanced distributed learning.........................  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
    Distributed simulation, warfighting concepts..........  ...........        6,000            0         6,000
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND LOGISTICS ADVANCED TECH.........       23,809       28,809       26,809        29,809
    Visualization of technical information................  ...........            0        3,000         3,000
    Aviation depot maintenance technology demonstrations    ...........        3,000            0         2,000
     at NADEP Jacksonville................................
    Allegheny Ballistics Laboratory.......................  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
NAVY TECHNICAL INFORMATION PRESENTATION SYSTEM............       41,840       19,940            0        41,840
    Joint warfighting experimentation program.............  ...........      -21,900  ............  ............
    Note: Up to $520,000 is only to establish the Center
     for Defense Technology and Education for the military
     services at the Naval Postgraduate School to focus on
     the impact of emerging technologies on joint warfare.
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION............................       75,635       96,535      109,635       110,535
    Littoral warfare fast patrol craft....................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Low observable stack..................................  ...........            0       10,000         8,000
    Vectored thrust ducted propeller......................  ...........        5,900        6,000         5,900
    Note: Funds are only to collect flight test data
     including speed, range, and reduced vibrations and
     fatigue loads of an H-60 modified with VTDP, lifting
     wing, and supplementary power system for multimission
     effectiveness and life cycle cost analyses of
     conceptual operational designs of VTDP compound
     variants of the CH-60S and SH-60R.
    Advanced trailer research.............................  ...........            0        6,000         6,000
    Advanced hull form in-shore demonstrator..............  ...........            0       12,000        10,000
    Advanced sub carrier modulation/magnetic resonance....  ...........       10,000            0             0
C3 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY....................................       23,808       39,808       33,808        41,808
    National technology alliance..........................  ...........        5,000       10,000        10,000
    Dominant battlespace command initiative...............  ...........        6,000            0         6,000
SPAWAR/NATAC program......................................  ...........        5,000            0         2,000
C2W REPLACEMENT FOR EA-6B.................................            0       16,000            0             0
    Analysis of alternatives..............................  ...........       16,000            0             0
    Note: Funded in RDT&E, Defensewide
AVIATION SURVIVABILITY....................................        7,280       16,280        7,280        14,280
    Smart aircrew integrated life support system..........  ...........        3,000            0         2,000
    Dynamic flow ejection seat facility improvements......  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Lightweight environmentally sealed parachute assembly   ...........        1,500            0         1,000
     sealing..............................................
    Pilot vehicle interface center upgrades...............  ...........        1,500            0         1,000
SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE COUNTERMEASURES............       82,465       94,465      100,465       107,465
    Integrated combat weapons system for MCM ships........  ...........            0       18,000        15,000
    Remote minehunting system.............................  ...........       12,000            0        10,000
ADVANCED SUBMARINE COMBAT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.............            0       10,000            0         5,000
    Conformal array velocity sensor.......................  ...........        6,800            0         3,000
    Common towed array program............................  ...........        3,200            0         2,000
SHIPBOARD SYSTEM COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT....................      108,334      114,484      110,334       113,334
    Man overboard indicator...............................  ...........        3,150            0         3,000
    Ship survivability and personnel protection...........  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
    Advanced waterjet technology..........................  ...........        1,000        2,000         1,000
ADVANCED SUBMARINE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT.....................      115,767      124,267      118,067       121,067
    Affordable advanced acoustic arrays...................  ...........        5,000            0         3,000
    Enhanced performance motor bush.......................  ...........        3,500        2,300         2,300
SHIP CONCEPT ADVANCED DESIGN..............................        5,318       29,818       20,318        28,818
    Smart propulsor model.................................  ...........        1,500            0         1,500
    Standard for exchange of product model data...........  ...........            0        2,000         2,000
    Trident SSGN design...................................  ...........       13,000       13,000        10,000
    Automated maintenance environment.....................  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
ADVANCED SURFACE MACHINERY SYSTEMS........................       17,727       22,727       20,227        26,727
    Naval ship survivability..............................  ...........            0        2,500         2,000
    Intercooled gas turbine recuperator...................  ...........        5,000            0         7,000
COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION.................................       46,740       79,740       51,740        78,740
    Common command and decision system....................  ...........       30,000        5,000        30,000
    NAVSEA methodology for fleet legacy systems...........  ...........        3,000            0         2,000
CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS....................................       34,309       43,309       34,309        39,309
    Environmentally safe energetic materials..............  ...........        2,000            0         1,000
    Optical correlation technology for automatic target     ...........        7,000            0         4,000
     recognition..........................................
MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORT SYSTEM.................       42,654       45,654       42,654        46,654
    Lightweight 155 howitzer..............................  ...........        3,000            0         1,000
    SMAW-CS system level qualification test and evaluation  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT....................................      114,931      190,931      129,931       190,931
    CEC space.............................................  ...........            0       15,000             0
    Low cost data distribution system/cooperative           ...........       15,000            0        15,000
     engagement processor.................................
    CEC network capacity expansion........................  ...........       12,700            0        12,700
    System protection/TBMD integration/advanced             ...........       10,000            0        10,000
     architecture.........................................
    Low cost planar array.................................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Forward pass/remote launch............................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    Modeling and simulation...............................  ...........        7,500            0         7,500
    One additional land based unit to evaluate CEC/Patriot  ...........        6,800            0         6,800
    Airborne antenna improvement..........................  ...........        4,000            0         4,000
    Area air defense commander risk reduction.............  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION..................................       70,793       84,793       74,793        82,793
    Asbestos conversion pilot program.....................  ...........        4,000        4,000         4,000
    Resource preservation initiative at Puget Sound Naval   ...........       10,000            0         8,000
     Shipyard.............................................
NAVY LOGISTICS PRODUCTIVITY...............................            0       27,500            0        18,000
    Virtual system implementation program.................  ...........       10,000            0         7,000
    Rapid retargeting of electronic circuits..............  ...........       10,000            0         7,000
    Compatible processor upgrade program..................  ...........        7,500            0         4,000
LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY....................................      101,489      111,489      117,789       117,489
    ERGM guidance system cost reduction...................  ...........       10,000       10,000        10,000
    Projectile common guidance and control................  ...........        3,000            0             0
    Proximity fuze for DPICM submunitions.................  ...........        2,000            0             0
    Continuous processor, NSWC Indian Head................  ...........        5,000        6,300         6,000
    Land attack standard missile, program delays..........  ...........      -10,000            0             0
OTHER HELO DEVELOPMENT....................................       48,776       80,776       64,776        75,776
    Parametric airborne dipping sonar.....................  ...........            0       15,000        15,000
    Sentient sensors......................................  ...........            0        1,000         1,000
    SH-60 third test asset................................  ...........       19,000            0             0
    Development, construction, and system integration of a  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
     CH-60 AMCM engineering development model.............
    Ship-air mission system integration...................  ...........        3,000            0         1,000
TACTICAL COMMAND SYSTEM...................................       41,599       45,599       41,599        44,599
    GCCS-M................................................  ...........        4,000            0         3,000
    Note: Funds are only for improving search               ...........  ...........  ............  ............
     functionality in data bases (OSIS).
AIR CREW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT..............................        6,801       14,301       10,301        14,301
    Front line ejection equipment testing.................  ...........        4,000            0         4,000
    Ejection seat stability, enhancements in fins, booms,   ...........        3,500        3,500         3,500
     trailing after-bodies, drogue parachutes, and pintal
     propulsion systems...................................
EW DEVELOPMENT............................................      163,077      237,577      163,077       209,077
    Location of GPS system jammers........................  ...........        4,500            0         4,000
    EA-6B connectivity (link 16)..........................  ...........       60,000            0        30,000
    Integrated defensive integrated electronic              ...........       10,000            0         7,000
     countermeasures......................................
    ICAP III spray cooling technology.....................  ...........  ...........  ............        5,000
SURFACE COMBATANT COMBAT SYSTEM ENGINEERING...............      204,480      244,480      229,480       257,980
    Cruiser conversion, flight I ships....................  ...........        7,500            0         5,000
    Interoperability......................................  ...........            0       25,000        25,000
    Interoperability/tactical display services............  ...........       25,000            0        25,000
    Advanced food service technology......................  ...........        7,500            0         3,000
    Transfer to ship self-defense.........................  ...........  ...........  ............       -4,500
SSN-688 AND TRIDENT MODERNIZATION.........................       48,896       76,896       48,896        76,896
    Multipurpose processors and middleware software.......  ...........       25,000            0        25,000
    BQG-5 wide aperture array.............................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
NAVY TACTICAL COMPUTER RESOURCES..........................        3,300       58,300        3,300        58,300
    Submarine communications/computer infrastructure......  ...........       20,000            0        20,000
    Computer aided dead reckoning tracer..................  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
    UYQ-70 improvements/technology refreshment............  ...........       25,000            0        25,000
    Advanced digital logistics integrated data capture and  ...........        5,000            0         5,000
     analysis.............................................
SHIP SELF DEFENSE--EMD....................................       96,580      111,580      115,980       130,480
    Nulka anti-ship missile decoy.........................  ...........            0        4,400         4,400
    Volume search radar...................................  ...........            0       15,000        12,000
    AIEWS for DDG-91 and LPD-22...........................  ...........       12,000            0        10,000
    AIEWS middleware/multi-purpose processors.............  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Transfer from surface combatant combat system           ...........            0            0         4,500
     engineering (CVN-68 ship self-defense)...............
MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT (ENGINEERING).........................        4,285       10,285        4,285        15,485
    Voice interactive device..............................  ...........        6,000            0         6,000
    Coastal cancer control (MUSC).........................  ...........            0            0         5,000
    Retinal pigment laser damage..........................  ...........            0            0           200
DISTRIBUTED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM...........................       14,910       38,910       36,910        36,910
    Advanced deployable system improved detection/tracking  ...........       19,000            0             0
     algorithms...........................................
    Advanced deployable system IOC acceleration...........  ...........            0       22,000        22,000
    Note: Within this amount, $5,000,000 is only for web
     centric warfare.
    Web centric warfare...................................  ...........        5,000            0             0
COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT SAVINGS INITIATIVE......       18,729       16,500       18,729        21,729
    Program reduction.....................................  ...........       -2,229            0             0
    MTTC/IPI..............................................  ...........            0            0         3,000
    Note: Funded in industrial preparedness in the Senate
     bill.
MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT......................................       42,621       49,621       47,621        46,621
    NAWC, PAX range tracking system upgrades..............  ...........        3,500            0         2,000
    Advanced virtual environment..........................  ...........        3,500            0         2,000
MARINE CORPS PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT.........................        8,198       28,398       18,198        28,398
    Acquifer vulnerability/contamination assessment.......  ...........        1,500            0         1,500
    Chemical biological individual sampler................  ...........        4,800        4,800         4,800
    Small unit biological detector........................  ...........        4,100        4,000         4,100
    Consequence management information system/chem-bio      ...........        4,800        1,200         4,800
     integrated information system........................
    Probable cause detection system.......................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    Human Effects Advisory Panel..........................  ...........        2,000            0         2,000
STRATEGIC SUB & WEAPONS SYSTEM SUPPORT....................       45,907       60,407       45,907        59,907
    Models for radiation hardened electronics/upgrade       ...........       14,500            0        14,000
     integrated circuit fabrication facility at SPAWAR
     Systems Center.......................................
F/A-18 SQUADRONS..........................................      315,714      373,214      320,714       322,714
    LAU-138A/A BOL chaff countermeasures..................  ...........        2,500            0         2,000
    Joint helmet mounted cueing system....................  ...........            0        5,000             0
    EA-6B follow-on support jammer, F/A-18E/F variant.....  ...........       40,000            0             0
    Radar ECCM improvements...............................  ...........       15,000            0         5,000
E-2 SQUADRONS.............................................       16,132       55,132       16,132        36,532
    Radar/computer modernization program..................  ...........       15,000            0        12,000
    Advanced support aircraft (follow-on to E-2/C-2)......  ...........        9,000            0         3,000
    Satellite communications..............................  ...........       15,000  ............            0
    UHF electronically scanned antenna....................  ...........            0            0         5,400
NAVY SCIENCE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM...........................  ...........            0       13,000        13,000
    LASH..................................................  ...........                    12,000        12,000
    Airship/LASH study for range enhancements.............  ...........            0        1,000         1,000
MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS........       39,941       36,741       32,741        35,741
    Improved recovery vehicle.............................  ...........       -7,200       -7,200        -7,200
    Shortstop.............................................  ...........        4,000            0         3,000
TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.........................       69,742       77,242       69,742        75,742
    Multifunction self-aligned gate.......................  ...........        4,500            0         3,000
    Tactical control system--UAV..........................  ...........        3,000            0         3,000
    System integration lab................................  ...........        4,500            0             0
    Tactical control system--program office...............  ...........       -4,500            0             0
AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...........................        4,958       18,958        8,958        18,958
    EO framing technologies...............................  ...........       10,000            0        10,000
    Hyperspectral modular airborne reconnaissance system..  ...........        4,000        4,000         4,000
MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS.............................       30,958       39,958       30,958        39,958
    SHARP.................................................  ...........        9,000            0         9,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: Funds are only for the auquisition and testing of a 
    lightweight SAR and for other related program requirements 
    such as software integration for the F/A-18C/D.

                    atlantic command experimentation

      The conferees agree to restrictions recommended by the 
House concerning use of fiscal year 1999 and 2000 funds which 
should be noted on the Base for Reprogramming (DD Form 1414) 
for fiscal year 2000. The conferees recognize, however, that 
the Atlantic Command will work in areas such as the Single 
Integrated Air Picture, which facilitate improved attack of 
critical mobile targets. Funds provided in this Act for 
Atlantic Command Experimentation are only for an integrated 
program which addresses the short, mid, and long terms and may 
not be used on a program which fails to consider short and near 
term war fighting improvements. The conferees do not agree to 
House language requiring quarterly reports to the defense 
congressional committees, but direct instead that the Secretary 
of Defense provide semi-annual reports for the next two years.

                          surface effects ship

      The conferees urge the Department of the Navy to procure 
a 110 foot surface effects ship if needed to fulfill a fast 
patrol craft requirement.

                          maritime technology

      In the fiscal year 1999 DoD Appropriations Conference 
Report, the conferees directed the Secretary of the Navy to 
provide funds to the Maritime Administration to complete 
testing of the potential interim solution to remediate 
potential damage resulting from oil spills from existing tank 
vessels. Based on additional information, the conferees have 
determined that the Maritime Administration is not the 
appropriate organization to execute this effort. Therefore, the 
conferees direct that the fiscal year 1999 RDT&E funds be 
redirected to the office of Naval Research for program 
execution.

      commercial operations and support savings initiative (COSSI)

      The conferees have provided $3,000,000 for MTTC/IPI in 
COSSI. The conferees fully expect MTTC/IPI to abide by program 
cost-sharing requirements in the future consistent with OSD 
requirements. However, for the initial award, the intent is for 
the requirement for cost sharing to be waived.

                   Software program managers network

      The conferees continue to support service programs and 
related activities provided by the Software Program Managers 
Network (SPMN). The conferees direct the Department to continue 
this program at last year's level of effort and, in addition, 
the conferees provide $1,000,000 to develop pilot projects to 
attract, train and retain skilled software personnel.



                                     EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           Program                               Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES...................................      209,505     216,505      209,505      216,305
    National Solar Observatory..............................  ...........        (600)        (650)        (600)
    Astronomical active optics..............................  ...........       4,000   ...........       3,800
    Coal based advanced thermally stable jet fuels..........  ...........       3,000   ...........       3,000
MATERIALS...................................................       63,334      74,234       84,161       78,811
    Deferral of New Material and Processes for Radar and      ...........  ...........      -3,773       -3,773
     Space Sensor Systems...................................
    Structural Monitoring of Aging Aircraft.................  ...........  ...........       1,500        1,000
    Friction stir welding...................................  ...........       2,000        2,000        2,000
    Thermal management for space structures.................  ...........       2,500        2,500        2,500
    Titanium Matrix Composites..............................  ...........  ...........       2,200        1,800
    Materials--High Temperature Ceramic Fibers..............  ...........  ...........       2,400        1,000
    Resin Systems for AF Engine Applications................  ...........  ...........       2,000        1,000
    Metals Affordability Initiative Consortium..............  ...........  ...........       9,000        5,000
    Electrochemical fatigue sensor development and field use  ...........  ...........       3,000        2,400
     test...................................................
    Carbon foam development for aircraft and spacecraft.....  ...........       1,500   ...........         750
    Materials and processes for metal cleaning, corrosion     ...........       1,000   ...........         800
     control, and coatings..................................
    High Temperature materials..............................  ...........       1,900   ...........         500
    Advanced composite materials and processing technology    ...........       2,000   ...........         500
     transfer (NCC).........................................
AEROSPACE FLIGHT DYNAMICS...................................       43,898      49,298       41,398       45,718
    Deferral of Component Test of a Powered Lift System for   ...........  ...........      -2,500       -2,500
     a Transport Aircraft...................................
    Autonomous control technology...........................  ...........       2,100   ...........       1,680
    Extreme environment structures..........................  ...........       1,200   ...........         960
    Virtual development and demonstration environment.......  ...........       2,100   ...........       1,680
HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS APPLIED RESEARCH........................       51,512      72,412       62,612       71,012
    Solid electrolyte oxygen separator......................  ...........       3,000        6,000        3,000
    Behavioral Science Research under Air Force Research Lab  ...........  ...........       5,100        3,600
    Environmental quality technology, Tyndall AFB...........  ...........       4,000   ...........       2,000
    Materials and processes for metal cleaning, corrosion     ...........       1,000   ...........         800
     control, and coatings..................................
    Sustained operations....................................  ...........       2,500   ...........       2,000
    Oxygen research (ATD)...................................  ...........       2,100   ...........       1,700
    Spatial disorinentation.................................  ...........         900   ...........         700
    Altitude protection.....................................  ...........         600   ...........         400
    Physiology..............................................  ...........       1,500   ...........       1,200
    Information training....................................  ...........       3,200   ...........       2,400
    Space training..........................................  ...........       2,100   ...........       1,700
AEROSPACE PROPULSION........................................       62,012      77,212       78,787       77,712
    High Thermal Stability Fuel Technology..................  ...........  ...........       1,000          600
    KC-135 Variable Displacement Vane Pump..................  ...........  ...........       4,000        2,000
    High Power, Advanced low mass systems prototype.........  ...........  ...........       6,000        2,000
    More electric aircraft program..........................  ...........  ...........       3,000        1,800
    Thermophotovoltaic (TPV)................................  ...........  ...........       2,000          800
    ISSES/AFRL..............................................  ...........  ...........         775          500
    Magnetic bearing cooling turbine technology.............  ...........       8,500   ...........       4,000
    Aircraft and weapon power...............................  ...........       3,400   ...........       2,000
    Fuels, lubes, combustion................................  ...........       3,300   ...........       2,000
AEROSPACE SENSORS...........................................       64,988      75,688       58,131       64,331
    Deferral of Radio Frequency Power Amplifiers for Space-   ...........  ...........      -2,437       -2,437
     Based Sensors..........................................
    Deferral of Automatic Target Recognition for Air and      ...........  ...........      -2,281       -2,281
     Space Vehicles.........................................
    Deferral of Feasibility of a Space-Based Radar Array....  ...........  ...........      -2,139       -2,139
    Connectivity and collaboration infrastructure among       ...........       6,000   ...........       3,000
     modeling, simulation, and computer resources...........
    Space protection........................................  ...........       2,200   ...........       1,400
    Automatic target recognition............................  ...........       2,500   ...........       1,800
PHILLIPS LAB EXPLORATORY DEVELOPMENT........................      115,313     147,613      128,318      147,118
    IHPRPT..................................................  ...........       5,300   ...........       2,800
    Hyperspectral imaging technology........................  ...........       6,400   ...........       4,500
    Deferral of payload systems for space based radar.......  ...........  ...........      -2,395       -2,395
    Reduced growth in ground and small satellite integration  ...........  ...........      -3,500       -3,500
     technologies...........................................
    HAARP...................................................  ...........  ...........      10,000       10,000
    Radio Frequency Applications Development................  ...........  ...........       5,000        2,500
    Tropo-weather...........................................  ...........       2,500        2,500        2,500
    Space survivability.....................................  ...........         600          600          600
    HIS Spectral Sensing....................................  ...........  ...........         800          600
    Terabit.................................................  ...........       5,000   ...........       5,000
    Post boost control system...............................  ...........       2,900   ...........       2,000
    Missile propulsion technology...........................  ...........       1,700   ...........       1,200
    Tactical missile propulsion.............................  ...........       3,000   ...........       2,300
    Orbit transfer propulsion...............................  ...........       2,300   ...........       1,700
    Space optics relay mirror concept.......................  ...........       1,000   ...........         800
    Laser remote optical sensing............................  ...........       1,600   ...........       1,200
COMMAND CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS..........................       46,448      47,548       54,248       52,148
    Deferral of space based radar subsystem technologies and  ...........  ...........      -1,500       -1,500
     concepts...............................................
    Electromagnetic technology..............................  ...........  ...........       9,300        7,000
    Defer bistatic effort...................................  ...........      -2,600   ...........      -2,600
    Distributed agent based C2 planning.....................  ...........       1,000   ...........         800
    Common battle space algorithms/processing...............  ...........         800   ...........         600
    Intelligent networks for global information assurance...  ...........         900   ...........         600
    Computer forensics......................................  ...........         500   ...........         400
    Real time knowledge based sensor to shooter decision      ...........         500   ...........         400
     making.................................................
ADVANCED MATERIALS FOR WEAPON SYSTEMS.......................       25,890      31,890       30,390       34,390
    Composite space launch payload dispensers...............  ...........  ...........       4,500        4,500
    Advanced low observable coatings........................  ...........       6,000   ...........       4,000
ADVANCED AEROSPACE SENSORS..................................       29,405      47,805       24,805       38,405
    Defer EO sensors to detect deep hide targets............  ...........  ...........      -4,600       -2,300
    Multispectral battlespace simulation for IDAL...........  ...........      15,000   ...........       9,000
    Combat ID AGRI ATD......................................  ...........       3,400   ...........       2,300
AEROSPACE PROPULSION AND POWER TECHNOLOGY...................       38,778      39,378       39,028       39,178
    More electric aircraft program..........................  ...........  ...........         250   ...........
    Aircraft and weapon power...............................  ...........         600   ...........         400
PERSONNEL, TRAINING AND SIMULATION TECHNOLOGY...............        4,827       7,027        6,627        6,327
    Behavioral Science Research under Air Force Research Lab  ...........  ...........       1,800        1,500
    Night vision training...................................  ...........       2,200   ...........           0
CREW SYSTEMS AND PERSONNEL PROTECTION TECHNOLOGY............       14,841      29,841       22,841       31,341
    High brightness helmet mounted visual system components   ...........       4,500        5,000        3,000
     and mini-CRT...........................................
    Panoramic Night Vision Goggles for Aircrews.............  ...........  ...........       3,000        1,500
    Accelerate subsystem qualification testing for next       ...........      15,000   ...........      12,000
     generation ejection seats..............................
ELECTRONIC COMBAT TECHNOLOGY................................       27,334      34,434       27,334       32,334
    CLIRCM..................................................  ...........       7,100   ...........       2,000
    IDAL C3NI...............................................  ...........  ...........  ...........       3,000
SPACE AND MISSLE ROCKET PROPULSION..........................       11,231      26,531       11,231       16,731
    IHPRPT..................................................  ...........      11,000   ...........       5,500
    Missile propulsion technology...........................  ...........       2,600   ...........           0
    Orbit transfer propulsion...............................  ...........       1,700   ...........           0
ADVANCED SPACECRAFT TECHNOLOGY..............................       76,229      67,259      118,129      103,529
    Discoverer II...........................................  ...........     -28,670   ...........     -15,400
    Deferral of space based radar antenna technologies......  ...........  ...........      -2,100       -2,100
    Deferral of Warfighter 2 demo...........................  ...........  ...........      -6,000       -6,000
    Miniature Satellite Threat Reporting System (MSTRS).....  ...........       4,000        5,000        4,000
    Upper Stage Flight Experiment...........................  ...........  ...........      15,000       15,000
    Space Maneuver Vehicles.................................  ...........  ...........      25,000       15,000
    Digital radiation hardened microelectronics.............  ...........      10,000   ...........       5,000
    Hyperspectral imaging...................................  ...........       1,200   ...........         800
    Scorpius................................................  ...........  ...........       5,000        3,000
    Composite space launch payload dispensers...............  ...........       4,500   ...........       3,000
    Microsat Technology (Transfer from 0605864F)............  ...........  ...........  ...........       5,000
CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY.............................       21,479      23,033       21,479       21,033
    Defer PIOS II technology for AMRAAM.....................  ...........      -2,446   ...........      -2,446
    Optical correlator technology...........................  ...........       4,000   ...........       2,000
ADVANCED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY.................................       38,995      56,495       44,695       57,495
    Reduce growth in advanced solid state lasers for          ...........  ...........      -5,300       -2,000
     advanced applications..................................
    LaserSpark  ............................................  ...........       2,500        5,000        2,500
    Field laser radar upgrade...............................  ...........  ...........       6,000        6,000
    GLINT...................................................  ...........      15,000       (7,500)      12,000
ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY........................            0       3,000        5,000        5,500
    E-SMART Environmental Monitoring Tool...................  ...........  ...........       5,000        4,000
    Environmental quality technology........................  ...........       3,000   ...........       1,500
JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER........................................      235,374     335,374      250,374      250,374
    Alternative Engine Development..........................  ...........  ...........      15,000       15,000
    Risk reduction..........................................  ...........     100,000   ...........           0
INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE--DEM/VAL.................       28,628      28,628       47,828       47,828
    Quick reaction launch demonstration under RSLP..........  ...........  ...........      19,200       19,200
C-130.......................................................  ...........      43,600   ...........      40,600
    Transfer from aircraft procurement for Avionics           ...........      39,600   ...........      38,600
     Improvement Program....................................
    AC-130 Leading Edge.....................................  ...........       4,000   ...........       2,000
WIDEBAND MILSATCOM (SPACE)..................................       53,344      44,344       53,344       50,344
    Excessive program support costs.........................  ...........      -6,000   ...........      -3,000
    Excessive Joint Terminal Program Office funding.........  ...........      -3,000   ...........           0
B-1B........................................................      203,544     203,544      163,544      178,544
    Delays in Block E Computer Upgrade Program..............  ...........  ...........     -20,000      -10,000
    Delays in IDECM/Block F Defensive System Upgrade Program  ...........     -20,000      -20,000      -15,000
B-2 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY BOMBER..............................      201,765     344,165      238,765      301,765
    JASSM contract savings..................................  ...........     -31,600   ...........     -31,600
    Delay of AV-3 Block 30 mods.............................  ...........     -37,000   ...........     -10,000
    Classified program......................................  ...........      30,100   ...........      30,100
    Link 16/Display.........................................  ...........      92,000   ...........      68,700
    EGBU-28.................................................  ...........      35,900   ...........      16,800
    Inflight replanning.....................................  ...........      35,000   ...........      20,000
    Stealth enhancement.....................................  ...........      16,000   ...........       4,000
    Next generation bomber study............................  ...........       2,000   ...........       2,000
    B-2 Upgrades and Maintainability Enhancements...........  ...........  ...........      37,000            0
EW DEVELOPMENT..............................................       90,347      89,047      100,347       86,847
    Delay in IDECM program..................................  ...........     -15,000   ...........     -15,000
    Precision location and ID program (PLAID)...............  ...........      13,700       10,000       11,500
    Space-based infrared system (SBIRS).....................       77,651     229,029      127,651      229,029
    Transfer from 0603441F..................................  ...........     151,378   ...........     151,378
    SBIRS low EMD (for one flight demo).....................  ...........  ...........      50,000            0
MILSTAR LDR/MDR SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE)............      361,308     214,308      361,308      362,808
    Integrated Satellite Communication Control..............  ...........       3,000   ...........       1,500
    Transfer MILSTAR procurement to missile procurement.....  ...........    -150,000   ...........           0
LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS........................................        6,135       9,135        8,635       11,635
    Life support systems....................................  ...........  ...........       2,500        2,500
    Arm, torso, head & neck wind blast shielding and other    ...........       3,000   ...........       3,000
     aircraft inflatable restraint configurations...........
COMBAT TRAINING RANGES......................................        6,220      17,820        6,220       12,020
    Advanced Data Oriented Security Module..................  ...........       6,000   ...........       3,000
    Mini-MUTES modernization program........................  ...........       5,600   ...........       2,800
COMPUTER RESOURCE TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION (CRTT)..............          196       6,396        2,996        6,096
    Asset software reuse program............................  ...........  ...........       2,800        2,800
    NPLACE National Product Line Software Initiative........  ...........       5,200   ...........       2,600
    AF product line engineering.............................  ...........       1,000   ...........         500
MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT........................................       47,334      69,534       53,334       57,934
    MARIAH II Hypersonic Wind Tunnel program................  ...........       6,000        6,000        4,000
    Unjustified growth in propulsion wind tunnel hardware...  ...........      -3,000   ...........      -3,000
    Eglin range improvements................................  ...........       9,000   ...........       4,500
    Modify B-52H as launch platform for experimental space    ...........      10,200   ...........       5,100
     vehicles and new weapon systems........................
    Laser Induced Surface Improvement.......................  ...........  ...........  ...........       (1000)
TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT.................................      392,104     400,104      365,504      382,104
    Authorization transfer to S&T...........................  ...........  ...........      -1,600            0
    Program reduction.......................................  ...........  ...........     -30,000      -15,000
    Big Crow program office.................................  ...........       8,000        5,000        5,000
SPACE TEST PROGRAM (STP)....................................       51,658      51,658       61,658       51,658
    Micro Satellite Technology (transfer to 0603401F).......  ...........  ...........      10,000            0
B-52 SQUADRONS..............................................       32,139      47,539       47,539       40,139
    Situational awareness upgrades..........................  ...........      15,400       15,400        8,000
F-16 SQUADRONS..............................................      112,250     127,520      118,520      115,520
    Adv Identification Friend or Foe (AIFF) for F-16........  ...........  ...........       6,000        3,000
    Radar ECCM improvements.................................  ...........      15,000   ...........           0
F-15E SQUADRONS.............................................      112,670     152,670      112,670      127,670
    F-15 service life extension.............................  ...........      20,000   ...........           0
    Radar ECCM improvements.................................  ...........      20,000   ...........      15,000
AF TENCAP...................................................       10,102           0       10,102       13,102
    Consolidate AF/NRO activities...........................  ...........     -10,102   ...........           0
    Authorized TENCAP project...............................  ...........  ...........  ...........       3,000
JOINT AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE (JASSM)...............      166,408     166,408      166,408      166,408
    Alternative missile engine source development...........  ...........  ...........      (1,000)      (1,000)
AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM (AWACS).................       33,393      36,393       33,393       36,393
    Transfer from aircraft procurement for AWACS computers..  ...........       3,000   ...........       3,000
    AWACS Cooperative Engagement Funding....................  ...........     (15,800)  ...........     (15,800)
JOINT SURVEILLANCE AND TARGET RADAR SYSTEM..................      130,488     161,988      130,488      148,488
    Properly phase Link 16 funding..........................  ...........     -15,000   ...........     -15,000
    Unjustified growth of management support funding........  ...........      -2,000   ...........      -2,000
    RTIP....................................................  ...........      48,500   ...........      35,000
USAF MODELING AND SIMULATION................................       19,299      23,799       19,299       21,249
    STORM...................................................  ...........       2,500   ...........       1,250
    Powerscene..............................................  ...........       2,000   ...........         700
DEFENSE SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM (SPACE).............        8,985       3,985        6,485        5,485
    Authorization transfer to S&T...........................  ...........  ...........      -2,500       -2,500
    EELV integration delays and savings.....................  ...........      -5,000   ...........      -1,000
INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM........................        7,992      12,492       17,992       19,492
    Lighthouse cyber security program.......................  ...........  ...........      10,000        7,000
    Computer coordinated distribution attack detection......  ...........       4,500   ...........       4,500
NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (SPACE AND CONTROL).......       98,890      98,890       98,890      108,890
    Operational Control Segment (OCS) shortfalls............  ...........  ...........  ...........      10,000
SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM (SPACE)..............................       43,186      60,986       43,186       51,686
    Universal Spaceport at Vandenburg AFB...................  ...........       8,500   ...........       8,500
    Fund shortfalls in space ranges.........................  ...........       9,300   ...........           0
ENDURANCE UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES..........................       70,835      89,800       57,600       79,800
    Dark Star...............................................  ...........      -6,035       -6,035       -6,035
    Global Hawk.............................................  ...........      25,000       -7,200       15,000
AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS.............................      124,608     144,008      134,608      139,608
    Data Rate Laser Comms...................................  ...........       2,000   ...........           0
    JSAF....................................................  ...........      17,400   ...........           0
    JSAF LBSS and HBSS......................................  ...........  ...........      10,000       15,000
MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...............................        9,388      12,388       21,888       20,388
    MSAG on RC-135..........................................  ...........       3,000   ...........       3,000
    Prototype pre-processor.................................  ...........  ...........       4,500        4,500
    U-2 Dual data link II upgrade...........................  ...........  ...........       8,000        3,500
AF/NRO Consolidated Activities..............................            0      23,500            0       10,882
    AF/NRO consolidate activities...........................  ...........      19,500   ...........      10,882
    Note: The conferees agree to consolidate funds for AF/    ...........       4,000   ...........           0
     NRO Partnership and the Space Architect Program
     authorized in TENCAP...................................
C-5 AIRLIFT SQUADRONS.......................................       63,041      60,041       44,172       60,041
    Unjustified mission support growth in Avionics            ...........      -3,000   ...........      -3,000
     Modernization Program..................................
    C-5 Program.............................................  ...........           0       (63041)  ...........
C-17 AIRCRAFT...............................................      170,718     149,918      170,718      160,918
    Rephase communications avionics.........................  ...........     -15,000   ...........      -4,000
    Unjustified funding for ``other'' on-going improvements.  ...........      -5,800   ...........      -5,800
PRODUCTIVITY, RELIABILITY, AVAILABILITY, MAINTAIN...........        9,382       9,382        9,382       22,382
    Aging aircraft & landing gear extension program.........  ...........  ...........       7,000        7,000
    Blade repair facility...................................  ...........  ...........       7,000        6,000
SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.................................       22,383      37,383       31,383       33,383
    Simulation Based Forecasting Decision Support Systems     ...........       3,000   ...........       1,500
     (SBFDSS)...............................................
    Integrated Maintenance Data Systems.....................  ...........       9,000        9,000        8,000
    Reengineering and enabling technologies.................  ...........       2,000   ...........       1,000
    Air Resource Rapid Reapplication Tools..................  ...........       1,000   ...........         500
    Air Force Knowledge Management Program..................  ...........  ...........  ...........       (2000)
COBRA BALL..................................................  ...........  ...........       4,000        4,000
    Advanced Airborne Sensor................................  ...........  ...........       4,000        4,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               materials

      The conferees are aware of the potential for fuel cells 
to reduce the logistics requirements for batteries and liquid 
fuels, and improve operational effectiveness of various 
systems. The conferees note that a full-scale demonstration of 
an advanced solid polymer electrolyte fuel cell that uses PBO 
based membranes holds great promise in increasing the 
performance of and reducing the cost of fuel cells. The 
conferees request that the Secretary of the Air Force provide a 
report by February 1, 2000 reviewing PBO fuel cell technology 
and evaluating its potential to meet the demanding requirements 
of the ``Air Expeditionary Force Deployment'' concept of 
operation.

            crew systems and personnel protection technology

      The conference agreement includes $12,000,000 only for 
ejection seat risk reduction efforts. These funds shall be 
divided equally between all viable competitors and are to be 
used to bring each candidate seat to a common qualification 
standard consistent with joint Air Force-Navy requirements. 
This effort is to be designated as a Joint Ejection Seat 
Program, with program management responsibilities to rotate 
between the Air Force and Navy in accordance with a schedule 
specified by the Secretary of Defense. The conferees direct the 
Air Force and the Navy, in conjunction with their fiscal year 
2001 budget requests, to provide a program and associated 
funding plans that will bring each candidate seat to a common 
qualification standard in an expeditious manner. The Air Force 
and the Navy should include sufficient funds for each ejection 
seat, consistent with that plan, in their budget requests. The 
conferees expect this program will lead to development of fully 
qualified seats that can be competed for installation into the 
Joint Strike Fighter and other current and future aircraft.

                                milstar

      The conference agreement funds the MILSTAR program in the 
Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Air Force account 
as in past years. While the Air Force has indicated that the 
sixth and last satellite will not be used for Independent 
Operational Test and Evaluation and therefore would have been 
more appropriately funded in procurement, the conferees 
acknowledge that this satellite is now 60% assembled. The 
conferees therefore believe that it is impractical to transfer 
funding for this satellite to the procurement account at this 
stage in the program.

                                  f-22

      The conferees have included $1,222,232,000, the budget 
request amount, for the F-22 engineering and manufacturing 
development program. In addition, the conferees have included 
two general provisions providing funds for the F-22 program. 
The first provision appropriates an additional $1,000,000,000 
which is available for transfer for the purposes of F-22 
program research, development, test and evaluation, and advance 
procurement. This provision includes a prohibition on the award 
of a full funding contract for low-rate initial production for 
the F-22 aircraft program until the first flight of an F-22 
aircraft incorporating Block 3.0 software has been conducted. 
The conferees agree that up to $277,100,000 of the funds 
appropriated by this provision may be transferred to the 
``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', account only for advance 
procurement of F-22 aircraft. The conferees further agree that 
any funds transferred for F-22 advance procurement shall not be 
available for obligation until the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that all 1999 
Defense Acquisition Board exit criteria have been met. The 
conferees direct the Air Force to establish cost accounting 
procedures which allow the accurate tracking of the cost of the 
additional test aircraft apart from other F-22 development 
efforts. The conferees further direct that costs associated 
with the additional test aircraft be separately identified in 
future research and development budget documents using the 
budget categories of the F-22 ``P-5'' budget exhibit. A second 
provision appropriates an additional $300,000,000 for F-22 
program termination liability or for other F-22 program 
contractual requirements in lieu of termination liability 
obligations. The conferees agree that the funds provided under 
this provision are not available for expenditure until October 
1, 2000.

               space based infrared system (sbirs)--high

      The conferees direct that no more than $100,000,000 of 
the funds provided for SBIRS High shall be obligated until the 
Secretary of Defense certifies that the production program 
complies with all DoD full funding policies (including the 
policy against funding more than 20% of the end-item cost using 
advance procurement) and that the program concurrency risk has 
been reduced relative to the acquisition strategy proposed by 
the Joint Estimating Team. The conferees further direct that 
concurrent with the Secretary of Defense certification above, 
the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation submit an 
assessment of whether the SBIRS high acquisition strategy 
allows for adequate testing to support a production decision.

            global positioning system spectrum harmonization

      The conferees continue to support the development of 
global positioning system technologies as being vital to the 
national security and economic interests of the United States. 
It has come to the attention of the conferees that increases in 
the aggregate noise that is generated into the spectrum band 
restricted for the delivery of GPS by users of spectrum in 
other frequency bands may pose a significant threat to the 
delivery of GPS. The conferees once again recognize the 
critical national security, public safety and economic 
interests that are implicated by this threat to the delivery of 
GPS, and therefore direct the DOD to initiate a spectrum 
harmonization study to be conducted by the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration of the United 
States Department of Commerce to be delivered to the defense 
appropriations committees no later than January 31, 2000.

      theater air command and control simulation facility (taccsf)

      Of the amount appropriated for infrastructure upgrades at 
TACCSF's new facility, $500,000 will be made available to 
Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National 
Laboratories to initiate a process to leverage their 
scientific, analytical, and computational capacities to advance 
and expand the simulation and modeling activities at TACCSF.

                         mariah ii wind tunnel

      In 1998, Congress combined the Air Force's and NASA's 
Hypervelocity Wind Tunnel programs under the name of Mariah II. 
This was done in recognition of the Air Force's requirements 
for Air Defense as well as the reputation of Arnold Engineering 
Development Center in the development and use of wind tunnels. 
The conferees believe that a hypervelocity ground test facility 
is critical for the development of the next generation of space 
and re-entry vehicles. The conferees are also concerned that 
the Air Force has been hesitant to adequately fund this 
successful high technology project. Any delays in this program 
would not only defeat the research momentum of all of the 
partners, but it would destroy the excellent teaming that has 
enabled the success to date. The conferees encourage the 
Department of the Air Force to support this necessary research 
and urge the Department of Defense to budget funds for fiscal 
year 2001 and beyond.

                    high altitude endurance vehicle

                  global hawk unmanned aerial vehicle

      The conferees are very concerned that the Air Force is 
planning to proceed with a revised Global Hawk program that has 
not been formally presented to Congress for approval. 
Additionally, it is unclear how this new program, if approved, 
would be funded in the out-years. The conferees understand that 
the total cost of the program could exceed $800,000,000 and 
that the Air Force may divert funds budgeted or appropriated 
for other Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) 
assets, to fully fund the revised Global Hawk program. The 
conferees agree that using other ISR assets as a ``bank'' from 
which to draw funds for the Global Hawk program would likely 
not serve the best interests of the Department of Defense.
      Therefore, while the conferees have agreed to provide an 
increase of $15,000,000 for Global Hawk, this should not be 
perceived as an approval of the revised Global Hawk program. 
The conferees agree that if the revised Global Hawk program is 
what the Administration plans to pursue, the program should be 
presented in a future budget request. Any shortfall in funding 
in fiscal year 2000 may be accommodated by approval of a 
reprogramming request.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE-WIDE

DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES..................................       64,293      66,293       66,293        67,893
    Spectral hole burning applications.....................  ...........  ...........       2,000         1,700
    Nanoelectric research [Note: $1,900,000 is only for      ...........       2,000   ...........        1,900
     molecular and Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata
     nanoelectronic research.].............................
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES............................      216,778     227,278      221,778       231,378
    Anticorrosion studies..................................  ...........  ...........       1,500           800
    Advanced high yield software development...............  ...........  ...........       1,500           800
    Active hyperspectral imaging sensor research...........  ...........  ...........       2,000         2,000
    DEPSCOR................................................  ...........     [25,000]     [25,000]      [25,000]
    Personnel research institute...........................  ...........  ...........      [2,000]       [2,000]
    Remote sensing.........................................  ...........       5,000   ...........        2,000
    Defense commercialization research initiative..........  ...........       5,500   ...........        5,500
    Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Verification.............  ...........  ...........  ...........        1,500
    Virtual parts engineering research center..............  ...........  ...........  ...........        2,000
CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM....................       31,386      44,386       35,386        44,886
    Chemical and biological detection programs.............  ...........  ...........       4,000         3,500
    Laboratory-based and analytical threat assessment        ...........      10,000   ...........        7,000
     research (non-agent specific) (USAMRIID)..............
    Chemical and biological point detectors................  ...........       3,000   ...........        2,000
    Chemical and biological detection programs.............  ...........       1,000   ...........        1,000
NEXT GENERATION INTERNET...................................       40,000      41,000       31,000        36,000
    Program reduction......................................  ...........  ...........     -10,000        -5,000
    Next generation internet...............................  ...........       1,000        1,000         1,000
SUPPORT TECHNOLOGIES--APPLIED RESEARCH.....................       65,328      80,328       90,328        89,328
    Wide band gap materials--gallium nitride...............  ...........      10,000       10,000         5,000
    Wide band gap materials--silicon carbide [Note: The      ...........  ...........       4,000         4,000
     conferees recommend an increase of $4 million to
     support the production of epitaxy for silicon carbide
     semiconductor device research to support design and
     fabrication of advanced sensors and processing
     systems.].............................................
    Photoconduction on Active Pixel Sensors................  ...........  ...........       8,000         8,000
    Laser communications experiment........................  ...........  ...........       3,000         3,000
    High Frequency Surface Wave Radar (HFSWR)..............  ...........       5,000   ...........        4,000
HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES (HBCU)........       14,329      16,329       14,329        16,329
    Minority research program (HSI) [Note: $2,000,000 is     ...........       2,000   ...........        2,000
     only for hispanic-serving institutions.]..............
COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY............      322,874     330,874      317,874       324,874
    Image understanding for force protection...............  ...........  ...........      -8,000        -5,000
    Reuse technology adoption program......................  ...........       3,000        3,000         2,000
    Computer security demos using RNP and redundancy.......  ...........  ...........        [500]         [300]
    Systems engineering for miniature devices..............  ...........       5,000   ...........        5,000
BIOLOGICAL WARFARE DEFENSE.................................      145,850     101,850      145,850       132,350
    Program reduction......................................  ...........     -12,000   ...........  ............
    Aerogel special silica material........................  ...........       4,000   ...........        3,000
    Asymmetrical protocols for biological warfare defense..  ...........       4,000   ...........        3,500
    Program reduction due to excessive growth..............  ...........     -40,000   ...........      -20,000
CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM....................       64,780      99,280       74,780        94,780
    Chemical and biological detection programs.............  ...........  ...........      10,000         8,000
    Protocols to enhance biological defense................  ...........      10,000   ...........        5,000
    Countermeasures to biological and chemical threats.....  ...........      13,000   ...........       13,000
    Safeguard..............................................  ...........       3,000   ...........  ............
    Chemical and biological point detectors................  ...........       4,500   ...........        2,000
    Chemical and biological chemical hazard detection......  ...........       4,000   ...........        2,000
TACTICAL TECHNOLOGY........................................      137,626     137,626      129,126       129,126
    Simulated battlefield imagery..........................  ...........  ...........      -5,000        -5,000
    Affordable rapid response missile demonstration........  ...........  ...........      -6,000        -6,000
    Micro adaptive flow control............................  ...........  ...........      -2,500        -2,500
    Variable diameter tiltrotor............................  ...........  ...........      -2,000        -2,000
    Ceros..................................................  ...........  ...........       7,000         7,000
INTEGRATED COMMAND AND CONTROL TECHNOLOGY..................       31,296      43,996       41,296        38,296
    High definition systems/flat panel displays............  ...........       8,700       10,000         7,000
    Flat panel displays and schott glass technology........  ...........       4,000   ...........  ............
MATERIALS AND ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY.......................      235,321     248,821      234,821       243,821
    Reconfigurable aperture................................  ...........  ...........      -6,000        -6,000
    Fabrication of 3-D micro structures, including research  ...........       4,000        2,000         2,000
     on materials processing...............................
    Biodegradable plastics.................................  ...........  ...........       1,500         1,000
    Strategic materials....................................  ...........  ...........       2,000         2,000
    Materials in sensors (MINSA)...........................  ...........       9,500   ...........        9,500
WMD RELATED TECHNOLOGY.....................................      203,512     215,512      218,512       216,512
    Thermionics............................................  ...........       5,000        3,000         3,000
    Nuclear weapons effects................................  ...........  ...........       7,000         4,000
    Deep digger............................................  ...........  ...........       5,000         4,000
    Discrete particle methods..............................  ...........       2,000   ...........        1,000
    Nuclear weapons effects (x-ray simulator)..............  ...........       5,000   ...........        1,000
EXPLOSIVES DEMILITARIZATION TECHNOLOGY.....................       11,183      22,383       18,183        25,183
    Explosives demilitarization technology.................  ...........       7,000        7,000         7,000
    Hydrothermal oxidation of explosives waste.............  ...........       3,000   ...........        3,000
    Waterjet Cutting Technology............................  ...........       1,200   ...........        1,000
    Hot Gas Decontamination................................  ...........  ...........      [4,500]        3,000
COUNTERTERROR TECHNICAL SUPPORT............................       52,223      57,223       59,223        57,223
    Facial recognition technology..........................  ...........       5,000        3,000         3,000
    Testing of air blast and improvised explosives.........  ...........  ...........       4,000         2,000
SUPPORT TECHNOLOGIES-ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.......      173,704     196,317      215,704       214,704
    Atmospheric interceptor technology.....................  ...........      20,000       30,000        25,000
    Excalibur..............................................  ...........       5,000        5,000         5,000
    Scorpius...............................................  ...........       5,000        5,000         5,000
    Silicon thick film mirror coatings.....................  ...........  ...........       2,000         2,000
    Space based laser......................................  ...........     -16,187   ...........  ............
    PRIME..................................................  ...........       1,300   ...........        1,000
    Cruise missile defense initiative......................  ...........      [7,000]  ...........       [6,000]
    Lightweight x-band radar...............................  ...........  ...........  ...........        3,000
    KE ASAT................................................  ...........       7,500   ...........  ............
VERIFICATION TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION......................       58,455      76,455       59,955        74,455
    Nuclear detection, analysis............................  ...........       6,000   ...........        6,000
    Center for monitoring research.........................  ...........     [10,000]       1,500       [10,000]
    Basic and applied research to support nuclear testing..  ...........      12,000   ...........       10,000
GENERIC LOGISTICS R&D TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS............       17,336      30,536       26,336        27,336
    Microelectronics (DMEA)................................  ...........       4,700        3,000         3,000
    Computer assisted technology transfer (CATT)...........  ...........       6,000        6,000         6,000
    Competitive sustainment demonstration..................  ...........       2,500   ...........        1,000
STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM...................       53,506      59,506       59,506        58,506
    Biosystems technology..................................  ...........  ...........       6,000   ............
    Environmental cleanup workers safety...................  ...........       3,000   ...........        3,000
    Toxic chemical cleanup.................................  ...........       3,000   ...........        2,000
ADVANCED ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES..........................      246,023     256,523      229,523       254,523
    Change detection technology............................  ...........  ...........       3,000         2,000
    Distributed robotics...................................  ...........  ...........      -5,000        -5,000
    Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS)..................  ...........  ...........     -20,000   ............
    Defense techlink.......................................  ...........       1,500        1,500         1,500
    Center for advanced microstructure and devices (CAMD)..  ...........       4,000        4,000         4,000
    Laser plasma x-ray.....................................  ...........       5,000   ...........        5,000
    X-ray lithography stepper technology...................  ...........  ...........  ...........        1,000
ADVANCED CONCEPT TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS.................      117,969      88,569      121,969       107,969
    Magnetic bearing cooling turbine.......................  ...........  ...........       4,000   ............
    Reduction per House Authorization......................  ...........     -29,400   ...........      -10,000
HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING MODERNIZATION PROGRAM...........      159,099     167,099      166,099       168,099
    Multithread architecture system for high performance     ...........       8,000        4,000         6,000
     computing modem.......................................
    High performance visualization center..................  ...........  ...........       3,000         3,000
COMMAND, CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS................      222,888     222,888      187,888       190,888
    Advanced intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance;  ...........  ...........     -10,000        -7,000
     active templates and JFACC............................
    Command post of the future.............................  ...........  ...........      -5,000        -5,000
    Agile control environment..............................  ...........  ...........     -20,000       -20,000
SENSOR AND GUIDANCE TECHNOLOGY.............................      232,319     182,658      207,319       181,519
    Large millimeter telescope.............................  ...........       3,000        2,000         2,000
    Organic ground moving target radar.....................  ...........  ...........      -3,000        -3,000
    Low cost cruise missile defense........................  ...........      -4,000       -4,000        -4,000
    Affordable moving surface target engagement............  ...........  ...........     -20,000       -10,000
    Discoverer II..........................................  ...........     -50,661   ...........      -37,300
    Underground facilities detection [Note: $1.5 million is  ...........       2,000   ...........        1,500
     only for MOLES.]......................................
PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT................................       37,107      25,792       32,107        26,107
    Force protection COTS equipment........................  ...........  ...........      -5,000        -5,000
    Program growth reduction...............................  ...........     -11,315   ...........       -6,000
JOINT ROBOTICS PROGRAM.....................................       12,937      16,937       17,937        17,937
    Lightweight robotic vehicles...........................  ...........  ...........       5,000         3,000
    Joint robotics.........................................  ...........       4,000   ...........        2,000
ADVANCED SENSOR APPLICATIONS PROGRAM.......................       15,345      26,845       26,345        27,345
    HAARP..................................................  ...........  ...........       5,000         5,000
    Solid state dye laser applications (ASAP)..............  ...........       6,000        6,000         4,500
    High power mid-infrared laser..........................  ...........       2,000   ...........        1,000
    Remote Operating Minehunting Sonar.....................  ...........       3,500   ...........        1,500
NAVY THEATER WIDE MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM...................      329,768     419,768      379,768       379,768
    NTW acceleration.......................................  ...........      40,000   ...........  ............
    Radar improvements competition.........................  ...........      50,000       50,000        50,000
    [Note: House bill provides an additional amount of       ...........    [+35,000]  ...........  ............
     $35,000,000 to be derived from previously
     appropriated, fiscal year 1999, funds (P.L. 105-277)
     only for NTW acceleration.]...........................
NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE--DEM/VAL..........................      836,555     761,555      986,555       836,555
    National missile defense--dem/val......................  ...........     -75,000      150,000   ............
    [Note: The conferees provide an additional amount of     ...........    [+75,000]  ...........    [+117,000]
     $117,000,000 to be derived from previously
     appropriated, fiscal year 1999, funds (P.L. 105-277)
     only for NMD.]........................................
JOINT THEATER MISSILE DEFENSE--DEM/VAL.....................      195,722     200,722      215,722       198,222
    Liquid surrogate target development program............  ...........       5,000        5,000         2,500
    Pacific missile range facility TMD upgrades............  ...........  ...........      10,000   ............
    Optical-electro sensors................................  ...........  ...........       5,000   ............
    Kauai Test Facility....................................  ...........  ...........      [4,000]  ............
FAMILY OF SYSTEMS ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION..............      141,821     141,821      136,821       146,821
    Delayed obligation of prior year funds.................  ...........  ...........      -5,000        -5,000
    CEC space..............................................  ...........  ...........  ...........       10,000
BMD TECHNICAL OPERATIONS...................................      190,650     200,650      193,650       216,150
    Advanced research center...............................  ...........  ...........       3,000         2,500
    IR sensor data.........................................  ...........     [10,000]  ...........       [5,000]
    Development of wide bandwidth information                ...........      10,000   ...........        8,000
     infrastructure........................................
    Pacific missile range facility TMD upgrades............  ...........  ...........  ...........       10,000
    Optical-electro sensors................................  ...........  ...........  ...........        5,000
    Kauai Test Facility....................................  ...........  ...........  ...........       [4,000]
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS.........................       36,650      36,650       78,650        81,650
    Arrow third battery....................................  ...........  ...........      42,000        45,000
    [Note: House bill provides an additional amount of       ...........  ...........    [+45,000]  ............
     $45,000,000 to be derived from previously
     appropriated, fiscal year 1999, funds (P.L. 105-277)
     only for the Arrow Third Battery.]....................
THREAT AND COUNTERMEASURES.................................       16,497      16,497       20,497        19,497
    Comprehensive advanced radar technology................  ...........  ...........       4,000         3,000
    Phase IV of the long range missile feasibility           ...........  ...........      [3,000]  ............
     assessment, including additional counter-measures
     hands-on-program missions.............................
CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM--DEM/VAL...........       62,033      69,533       69,033        69,033
    Bioadhesion research to combat biological warfare......  ...........  ...........       2,000         1,500
    M93A1 Fox Simulation Training Suites...................  ...........       5,000        5,000         4,000
    Counterterror research.................................  ...........       2,500   ...........        1,500
HUMANITARIAN DEMINING......................................       15,847      20,647       18,847        18,847
    Demining technology for unexploded land mines..........  ...........  ...........       3,000         3,000
    Humanitarian demining..................................  ...........  ...........      [1,800]       [1,800]
    Demining...............................................  ...........       3,000   ...........  ............
    Humanitarian demining..................................  ...........       1,800   ...........  ............
THEATER HIGH-ALTITUDE AREA DEFENSE SYSTEM--TMD--EMD........       83,755           0            0        45,755
    THAAD--Engineering, Manufacturing and Development......  ...........           0            0        45,755
    [Note: The conferees provide an additional amount of     ...........  ...........    [+83,755]     [+38,000]
     $38,000,000 to be derived from previously
     appropriated, fiscal year 1999, funds (P.L. 105-277)
     only for THAAD EMD once it meets exit criteria.]......
PATRIOT PAC-3 THEATER MISSILE DEFENSE ACQUISITION--EM......       29,141      77,641      181,141       104,141
    Program cost overruns..................................  ...........      48,500      152,000        75,000
    [Note: The conferees provide an additional amount of     ...........    [+75,000]  ...........     [+75,000]
     $75,000,000 to be derived from previously
     appropriated, fiscal year 1999, funds (P.L. 105-277)
     only for the PAC 3 cost overruns.]....................
NETWORK SECURITY...........................................  ...........      12,000   ...........       12,000
    Protection of vital data [Note: The conferees direct     ...........      12,000   ...........       12,000
     the Department to transfer the funds provided for this
     project to the National Security Agency for
     execution.]...........................................
DEFENSE IMAGERY AND MAPPING PROGRAM........................       88,401     101,401       99,201       104,201
    Pacific Imagery Program for Exploitation...............  ...........  ...........       2,800         2,800
    NIMA Viewer............................................  ...........       8,000        8,000         8,000
    National technology alliance...........................  ...........       5,000   ...........        5,000
DEFENSE RECONNAISSANCE SUPPORT ACTIVITIES (SPACE)..........  ...........  ...........       6,000   ............
    Pacific Disaster Center................................  ...........  ...........       6,000   ............
GENERAL SUPPORT TO C3I.....................................        2,000       2,000        2,000         8,000
    Pacific Disaster Center................................  ...........  ...........  ...........        6,000
SPECIAL OPERATIONS TACTICAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT............      106,671     149,370      127,271       150,270
    Classified Programs....................................  ...........  ...........      11,600         6,000
    CV-22 Modifications....................................  ...........       9,000        9,000         9,000
    CV-22 Second Digital Map...............................  ...........       3,600   ...........  ............
    Small Craft Propulsion Systems Improvements............  ...........       4,000   ...........        2,500
    Advanced Seal Delivery Systems.........................  ...........      26,099   ...........       26,099
SPECIAL OPERATIONS INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT........        1,407       6,507        1,407         5,407
    SOTVS underwater camera................................  ...........       2,100   ...........        1,300
    Joint Threat Warning System............................  ...........       3,000   ...........        2,700
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            seismic research

      Last year's nuclear tests in South Asia raise serious 
concerns about the Department's ability to support a robust 
operational nuclear test monitoring program. The conferees 
direct that from within available funds, $10,000,000 shall be 
available only for peer-reviewed basic and applied research 
only to support operational nuclear test monitoring. Of this 
amount, $2,500,000 shall be available only for peer-reviewed 
seismic research; and $7,500,000 shall be available only for 
peer-reviewed basic research--$6,500,000 of which is only for 
explosion seismology research. The conferees direct that the 
basic and applied seismic research program consider the 
specific prioritized research topics recommended to the 
Department by the National Research Council.
      The conferees direct the Defense Threat Reduction Agency 
to award these funds through a competitive peer panel review 
process; to segregate the basic and applied research funds for 
this program into clearly identifiable projects within the 6.1 
and 6.2 budget categories; and to improve integration of the 
basic and applied components of the program. Further, the 
conferees direct the Department to provide, by December 1, 
1999, a detailed report to the Congressional Defense Committees 
on the plan for obligating these funds. Finally, the conferees 
direct the Department to sustain funding for these activities 
in future budgets to ensure the expertise needed in this 
critical operational program.

                national missile defense risk reduction

      To take full advantage of joint ballistic missile defense 
efforts with allied nations, the conferees direct the Director 
of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization to provide a 
report to the Appropriations Committees of the House and Senate 
by February 1, 2000, on those technologies, designs, or 
technical approaches developed by, or in cooperation with, 
allied ballistic missile defense programs that would help 
reduce the level of technical, schedule, or cost risk to any 
element of the U.S. national missile defense program.

                        advanced research center

      The conferees direct the Ballistic Missile Defense 
Organization not to establish any new missile defense data 
centers.
      Further, the conferees have provided an additional 
$2,500,000 for the operational support of the Army's Advanced 
Research Center (ARC) for a total level of funding of 
$14,500,000. The conferees understand this level to be 
sufficient to maintain modeling and simulation capability at 
the facility in support of Theater and National Missile Defense 
Programs while providing the necessary infrastructure support 
for the facility. As such, users should not be required to 
offset operational costs with program funding in any form. Only 
peculiar and unique support should require such contributions 
and under no condition should such fees be assessed or required 
by higher commands. The conferees direct BMDO to maintain and 
plan for adequate levels of operational support for the ARC 
without reliance upon program user fees.

                      transportation technologies

      The House report recommended that the Center for 
Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies be 
considered for up to $15,000,000 of the funds provided in 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide. To be consistent with 
United States Transportation Command's established funding 
mechanism and management system the conferees believe that the 
Center should be considered for up to $15,000,000 of the funds 
provided in Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
Defense-wide instead.

                             Discoverer II

      The conferees agree to provide a total of $40,000,000 for 
the Discoverer II satellite technology demonstration program, a 
reduction of $68,500,000 to the budget request. The conferees 
agree that this funding shall be provided in equal portions to 
the Air Force, the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency 
(DARPA), and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO).
      The conferees direct that the funding provided in fiscal 
year 2000 may only be used to complete the Phase I study 
portion of the program, and any associated program management 
costs.



                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CENTRAL TEST AND EVALUATION INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT..........      121,741      140,241      120,241      134,241
    Roadway simulator.......................................  ...........        8,500       13,500       10,000
    Resource enhancement project............................  ...........  ...........      -15,000       -5,000
    Airborne separation video system........................  ...........        5,000  ...........        4,000
    Magdalena ridge observatory.............................  ...........        5,000  ...........        3,500
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIVE FIRE TESTING...........................................        9,832       14,832       19,832       16,832
    Live fire testing and training initiative...............  ...........        5,000       10,000        7,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                TITLE V--REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

      The conferees agree to the following amounts for 
Revolving and Management Funds programs:

                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense Working Capital Funds...............................       90,344       90,344       90,344       90,344
National Defense Sealift Fund...............................      354,700      729,700      354,700      717,200
                                                             ---------------------------------------------------
      Total, Revolving and Management Funds.................      445,044      820,044      445,044      807,544
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

      The conferees agree to provide $90,344,000 for the 
Defense Working Capital Fund.

                     National Defense Sealift Fund

      The conferees agree to provide an additional $320,000,000 
for procurement of a new Large Medium-Speed Roll-on roll-off 
(LMSR) ship for the Army; $30,000,000 for conversion of an 
existing LMSR ship to meet Marine Corps requirements for a 
maritime prepositioning force ship; and $12,500,000 to convert 
an RRF sealift vessel into a training ship for the 
Massachusetts Maritime Academy.

             TITLE VI--OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement is as follows:


                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Defense Health Program......................................   10,834,657   11,078,417   11,184,857   11,154,617
Armed Forces Retirement Home................................            0            0       68,295            0
Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Army.............    1,169,000      781,000    1,029,000    1,029,000
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense......      788,100      883,700      842,300      847,800
Office of the Inspector General.............................      140,844      140,844      137,544      137,544
                                                             ---------------------------------------------------
      Total, Other Department of Defense Programs...........   12,932,011   12,883,961   13,261,996   13,168,961
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         Defense Health Program

                                    EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               Budget       House        Senate      Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska Federal Health Care (AFHCAN) Partnership             ...........  ...........        1,400         1,400
 Telemedicine Network.....................................
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences......  ...........  ...........       [6,300]       [6,300]
Graduate School of Nursing................................  ...........  ...........        2,300         2,300
Tri Service Nursing Research Service......................  ...........  ...........        6,000         6,000
Pacific Island Health Care................................  ...........  ...........        5,000         5,000
Center for Disaster Management and Humanitarian Assistance  ...........  ...........        5,000         5,000
Casualty Care Research Center.............................  ...........  ...........         [760]         [760]
Military Health Services Information Management...........  ...........  ...........       10,000        10,000
Brown Tree Snakes.........................................  ...........  ...........        1,000         1,000
PACMEDNET.................................................  ...........  ...........       12,000        12,000
Automated Clinical Practice Guidelines....................  ...........  ...........        7,500         7,500
DOD Center for Medical Informatics........................  ...........  ...........       [2,000]        2,000
Computational neuroscience................................  ...........        3,000  ............        3,000
Lung cancer program [Note: $7,000,000 only to explore       ...........        7,000  ............        7,000
 multiple avenues of research, prevention, diagnosis, and
 therapy that would yield new treatment options for lung
 cancer.].................................................
Post-polio................................................  ...........        1,300  ............        1,300
Neuroscience research [Note: $3,000,000 only to establish   ...........        3,000  ............        3,000
 West Coast Functional MRI brain research capabilities.]..
Neuroscience research [Note: $5,000,000 only to continue    ...........        5,000  ............        5,000
 neurological research under cooperative agreement DAMD 17-
 99-2-9007.]..............................................
Digital Mammography.......................................  ...........        5,000  ............        4,000
Nutrition research........................................  ...........        3,760  ............        3,760
Periscopic surgery for the spine [Note: $2,000,000 only     ...........        2,000  ............        2,000
 for research into the development of minimally invasive
 surgical procedures for the brain, spinal cord, and spine
 under DAMD 17-99-1-9022.]................................
Comprehensive breast cancer clinical care project [Note:    ...........        7,500  ............        7,500
 $7,500,000 only for the Walter Reed Army Medical Center
 to establish a peer-reviewed research program by the
 Uniformed Services University for the Health Sciences to
 test and improve the Department's ability to provide
 comprehensive breast care risk assessment, diagnosis,
 treatment, and research. This program shall be a multi-
 disciplinary public/private effort in coordination with
 the USUHS, a not for profit research center, and a rural
 primary care center.]....................................
Coronary and prostate disease reversal [Note: $5,000,000    ...........        5,000  ............        5,000
 only to continue the non-invasive coronary and prostate
 disease reversal program.]...............................
Chronic disease management................................  ...........       10,000  ............       10,000
Computer based patient records [Note: $4,200,000 is only    ...........        4,200  ............        4,200
 for the further development of the Government Computer-
 based Patient Record program.]...........................
Budget execution savings..................................  ...........      -63,000  ............      -63,000
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION (DHP)..........  ...........      250,000      300,000       275,000
    Peer-reviewed Breast Cancer research program..........  ...........      175,000      175,000       175,000
    Peer-reviewed Prostate Cancer research program........  ...........       75,000       75,000        75,000
    Peer-reviewed medical research........................  ...........  ...........       50,000        25,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            medical research

      The conferees applaud the medical research and 
development efforts and accomplishments of the Department of 
Defense, and, within funding provided for the Defense Health 
Program, recommend $275,000,000 for medical RDT&E efforts to be 
conducted by the Department. Within these funds, $175,000,000 
is for the Army's peer reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program 
(BCRP), and $75,000,000 is for the Army's peer reviewed 
Prostate Cancer Research Program (PCRP).
      The remaining funds of $25,000,000 are to be made 
available for peer reviewed medical research grants and 
activities. The conferees direct that the Secretary of Defense, 
in conjunction with the service Surgeons General, establish a 
process to select medical research projects of clear scientific 
merit and direct relevance to military health.
      Such projects could include: acute lung injury research; 
advanced soft tissue modeling; alcohol abuse prevention 
research; Defense and Veterans Head Injury Program; Dengue 
fever vaccine research; childhood asthma; diabetes; digital 
mammography imagining; Gulf War Illnesses; Padget's disease; 
retinal display technology; smoking cessation; stem cell 
research; and volumetrically controlled manufacturing.
      The conferees direct the Department to provide a report 
by March 1, 2000, on the status of this peer reviewed medical 
research program, to include the corresponding funds provided 
in fiscal year 1999.

                             custodial care

      The conference agreement includes a general provision 
clarifying the definition of custodial care as it pertains to 
the delivery of health care services provided by and financed 
under the military health care system's case management 
program. This provision also sets the overall policy for access 
of military health care system beneficiaries in the case 
management program. The House bill included a similar 
provision. The Senate bill contained no similar provision. The 
conferees expect the Department to expeditiously revise its 
regulations to comply with this provision.

              anthrax vaccine immunization program (avip)

      The Comptroller General shall study the immunization 
program and report on the following: effects on military 
morale, retention, and recruiting; the civilian costs and 
burdens associated with adverse reactions for members of the 
reserve components; adequacy of long- and short-term health 
monitoring; assessment of the anthrax threat, including but not 
limited to foreign doctrine, weaponization, quality of 
intelligence, and other biological threats. A classified annex 
may be submitted to meet this requirement.
      The Department is directed to enter into a contract with 
the National Research Council to independently study the 
effectiveness and safety of the anthrax vaccine. The following 
issues shall be considered in the report: the types and 
severity of adverse reactions, including gender differences; 
long-term health implications; inhalational efficacy of the 
vaccine against all known anthrax strains; correlation of 
animal models to safety and effectiveness in humans; validation 
of the manufacturing process focusing on, but not limited to 
discrepancies identified by the Food and Drug Administration in 
February 1998; definition of vaccine components in terms of the 
protective antigen and other bacterial products and 
constituents; identification of gaps in existing research.
      Preliminary reports addressing these issues will be 
submitted to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee 
on Armed Services of both the House and the Senate by April 1, 
2000.

                              oxford house

      The conferees direct the Department to conduct a pilot 
project to improve treatment outcomes for alcoholism and drug 
addiction. The pilot project should evaluate the effectiveness 
and cost efficiency of Oxford House recovery homes in improving 
recovery without relapse following treatment for alcoholism and 
drug addiction among active and retired military personnel and 
their dependents. The conferees direct the Department to 
provide a report by March 1, 2000 on the status of this pilot 
project.

                  triservice nursing research program

      The conferees recommend $6,000,000 for the TriService 
Nursing Research Program (TSNRP). Within these funds, the 
conferees encourage the Department to leverage telehealth and 
distance learning capabilities, and to continue efforts in 
developing telemetered passive physiological monitoring for 
field conditions. Further, the conferees encourage the 
Department to begin funding the TSNRP in the Department's 
annual budget.


                  Chemical Munitions Destruction, Army

      The conferees concur with the decision of the Department 
of Defense to conduct evaluations of three additional 
alternative technologies under the Assembled Chemical Weapons 
Assessment (ACWA) Program. The conferees direct that 
$40,000,000 of the funds made available for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Army are only to conduct the additional 
ACWA evaluations. The conferees direct that the ACWA program is 
to proceed under the same guidelines as contained in Public Law 
104-208, and continue to use the Dialogue process and Citizens 
Advisory Technical Teams and their consultants.
      The conferees agree that the current budget execution 
rates for the Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction program 
are unacceptable and hopes that the Army improves the budget 
execution rates in fiscal year 2000. In the event that program 
budget execution rates improve during the fiscal year, and 
additional funds are required to sustain the establishment and 
operation of the nine chemical demilitarization facilities, the 
conferees expect the Army to submit a reprogramming request 
subject to normal, prior approval reprogramming procedures.
      The conferees disagree with the House direction with 
regard to an Inspector General report on the Chemical Agents 
and Munitions Destruction Program, Army. The conferees agree 
with House language directing the General Accounting Office to 
submit a report on the budget activities and management of the 
program.

         drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense

      The conference agreement is as follows:

Drug Interdiction and counter-drug activities:rs]
    Budget....................................................   788,100
    House.....................................................   883,700
    Senate....................................................   842,300
    Conference................................................   847,800

                    summary of conference agreement

      The conference agreement on items addressed by either the 
House or the Senate is as follows:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

National Guard Counter-drug Support...........................   +20,000
Gulf States Initiative........................................   +10,000
RCTA..........................................................    +2,000
  Marijuana Eradication/Guard Counter-drug activities
    Kentucky..................................................    +3,200
    Hawaii....................................................    +2,500
Counter-drug Intelligence and Infrastructure Support..........   +30,000
Northeast Regional Counter-drug Training Center...............    +2,000
Counter-narcotics Center at Hammer............................    +5,000
Technologies Assessment.......................................    +2,500
Southwest Border Fence........................................    +4,000
Lake County HIDTA.............................................    +1,000
MJTFTC........................................................    +4,000
Southwest Border States Initiative............................    +6,000
NICI..........................................................    +2,000
Young Marines.................................................    +1,500
Forward Operating Locations...................................   -27,000
Ground Based Radars...........................................    -4,000
Tethered Aerostat Radar System................................    -5,000

                        technologies assessment

      The conferees agree to provide $2,500,000 to assess 
technologies to detect air, land and maritime platforms which 
are evading currently operating detection and monitoring 
systems either because of their technological deficiencies or 
their locations. The conferees specifically direct that the 
assessment consider the utility of an additional Relocatable 
Over The Horizon Radar site, a Wide Aperture Radar Facility, 
and a ground station to support a tropical remote sensing 
radar. The conferees direct that the assessment be concluded by 
April 1, 2000 and that its findings be included in a report to 
the defense committees not later than May 15, 2000.

          counter-drug intelligence and infrastructure support

      The conferees agree to provide $30,000,000 for Counter-
drug Intelligence and Infrastructure Support in order to 
support numerous initiatives including those outlined by the 
Senate in the Drug Free Century Act and those identified in 
House Report 105-244 to include Operation Caper Focus, P-3 
FLIRs, observation aircraft, mothership operations, A-10 
aircraft, and other joint military intelligence programs. The 
conferees direct the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Drug Enforcement Policy to provide a plan for utilization of 
these funds to the defense committees within 60 days of the 
enactment of this Act.

              a-10 logistical and demilitarization support

      The conferees direct the Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Drug Enforcement Policy and Support and the 
Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of International Narcotics 
and Law Enforcement Affairs to submit a joint report to 
Congress within thirty days of enactment of the accompanying 
Act assessing the cost effectiveness of using refurbished A-10 
aircraft (currently in storage at AMARC) for the Department of 
State's coca eradication mission in Colombia. This report shall 
also discuss the time saved in returning such upgraded aircraft 
to combat condition should they be needed, compared to the time 
required to bring a storage aircraft to the same combat 
configuration, and assess the fiscal and operational impacts on 
the active A-10 combat force of such a transfer. The conferees 
agree that, if this report contains a joint recommendation to 
use these aircraft for this mission, $5,000,000 shall be made 
available from the sums provided under ``Counter-drug 
Intelligence and Infrastructure Support'' only for this 
purpose, in accordance with the directive of the House.

                      forward operating locations

      The conferees agree to a reduction of $27,000,000 to the 
budget request for Forward Operating Locations (FOLs). The 
conferees agree to provide $10,800,000 to be transferred to 
Military Construction, Air Force for planning and design of 
FOLs. The conferees also agree to provide $5,000,000 for 
transfer to Operation and Maintenance, Air Force only to be 
used for improvement and repair at the Curacao, Aruba, and 
Ecuador FOLs. Although the conferees are aware that the 
Commander in Chief of the U.S. Southern Command recommends that 
construction at these locations begin as soon as possible, the 
conferees are concerned that no formal permanent binding long-
term agreements for the use of these facilities have been 
executed between any of the FOL host nations and the United 
States. Funding beyond that needed for planning and design 
activities is premature without such agreements in place. The 
conferees direct that future requests for Military Construction 
funding for these projects be contained in budget requests for 
Military Construction.

                    office of the inspector general

      The conferees agree to provide $137,544,000 for the 
Office of the Inspector General. Of this amount, $136,244,000 
shall be for operation and maintenance activities and 
$1,300,000 shall be for procurement.

                  emergency and extraordinary expenses

      The conferees have agreed to increase the amount made 
available for emergencies and extraordinary expenses to 
$700,000 and direct the Inspector General to submit an 
expenditures report in compliance with the requirements 
contained in section 127 of Title 10, United States Code.

                      TITLE VII--RELATED AGENCIES

    The conferees agree to the following amounts for Related 
Agencies:

                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Budget       House        Senate     Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intelligence Community Management Account...................      149,415      144,415      149,415      158,015
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System      209,100      209,100      209,100      209,100
 Fund.......................................................
Payment to Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and          15,000       15,000       35,000       35,000
 Environmental Restoration Trust Fund.......................
National Security Education Trust Fund......................        8,000        8,000        8,000        8,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               intelligence community management account

      Details of the adjustments to this account are addressed 
in the classified annex accompanying this report.

                     TITLE VIII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement incorporates general provisions 
of the House and Senate versions of the bill which were not 
amended. Those general provisions that were amended in 
conference follow:
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8005) 
which amends language to provide authority to the Department to 
transfer not more than $1.6 billion of working capital funds or 
funds made available in this Act.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8008) 
which amends language authorizing multi-year procurements.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8034) 
which amends language that governs the activities of defense 
federally funded research and development centers (FFRDCs).
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8044) 
which amends language regarding funds available in the 
Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment 
Recovery Account.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8058) 
which amends language recommending rescissions. The rescissions 
agreed to are:

                            Fiscal Year 1998

                                                              Conference
Other Procurement, Navy:
    Combat Survivor Evader Radio........................     -$2,167,000
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force:
    F-16 savings........................................      -4,000,000
    C-130 Avionics Modernization Program................      -1,800,000
    JSTARS contract savings.............................     -10,000,000

                            Fiscal Year 1999

Other Procurement, Army:
    CSEL................................................     -13,700,000
Aircraft Procurement, Navy:
    Universal Jet Air Start Unit........................     -41,500,000
Under the heading, Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy:
    New Attack Submarine overhead savings...............     -32,400,000
    CVN-69 Overhaul contract savings....................     -11,400,000
Other Procurement, Navy:
    Combat Survivor Evader Radio........................      -6,384,000
    MK-12 IFF contract savings..........................      -1,900,000
    FFG upgrades........................................      -5,500,000
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force:
    F-16 savings........................................      -3,000,000
    C-130 Avionics Modernization Program................      -2,700,000
    T-38 Avionics Upgrade Program.......................     -10,000,000
    C-17 prior year savings.............................      -7,300,000
    B-1 prior year savings..............................      -6,729,000
Missile Procurement, Air Force:
    Classified program..................................    -130,000,000
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army:
    Mines...............................................      -4,000,000
    Force XXI initiative................................      -1,400,000
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy:
    AV-8B Mods, termination of life extension program...     -11,000,000
    NTACMS..............................................      -3,900,000
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force:
    GBS reduced receiver suites.........................      -5,300,000
    B-2 JASSM savings...................................      -7,000,000
    B-1B prior year savings.............................      -3,600,000
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
    Wide:
    ACTD................................................      -7,000,000
    Computing Systems and Communications................      -5,000,000
    Tactical Technology.................................      -7,000,000
    Sensors and Guidance................................      -4,500,000

      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8079) 
which amends House language that allows for the transfer of 
funds to provide services and support to organizations and 
activities outside of the Department, if they are incidental to 
training.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8082) 
which amends language to reflect the latest ship cost 
adjustment proposed by the Navy.
      The conferees included a general provision which amends 
(Section 8093) language concerning Buy American requirements to 
address shipyard cranes.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8100) 
which amends Senate language to reduce funding available to the 
Operation and Maintenance accounts by $123,200,000 due to 
civilian personnel underexecution.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8103) 
which amends House language to repair and upgrade the road 
providing access to the National Training Center.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8105) 
which amends House language concerning restrictions on the 
procurement of main propulsion engines and propulsors for the 
ADC(X) class of ships.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8107) 
which amends House language earmarking funds in support of the 
B-52 force structure.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8111) 
which amends House language to appropriate funds only for 
Weapons of Mass Destruction Domestic (WMD) Preparedness.
      The conference agreement provides an additional 
$35,000,000 to enhance efforts underway within the Department 
to develop a comprehensive and integrated domestic emergency 
response capability against terrorist attacks using weapons of 
mass destruction. The conference agreement also includes bill 
language specifying certain expenditures as amended by the 
conferees. These funds are provided, as follows:
      Military Support Detachment (Light).--To provide the 
training and preliminary equipment issue to field an initial 
operating capability for traditional drilling Military Support 
Detachments (Light).

        Appropriation                                             Amount
National Guard Personnel, Army..........................      $2,000,000
National Guard Personnel, Air Force.....................         500,000
Operation and Maintenance, Army.........................      12,180,000

      Additional Training/Exercises/Interagency Integration and 
Interoperability.--To enhance the training, organization, and 
support of DoD response forces to prepare for and respond to 
WMD terrorism, and enhance interoperability and connectivity 
between local, state, and federal interagency WMD response 
forces.

        Appropriation                                             Amount
Reserve Personnel, Army.................................      $2,000,000
Operation and Maintenance, Army.........................      12,320,000
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army........       6,000,000

      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8114) 
which amends House language that prohibits the Department of 
Defense from using funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts for the repair and maintenance of military 
family housing, and requires a review of Department of Defense 
practices by the DoD Office of the Inspector General.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8115) 
which amends House language which requires the Secretary of 
Defense to report on Advanced Concept Technology Demonstrations 
(ACTDs) prior to the obligation of funds, prohibits the further 
obligation of fiscal year 1999 funds for Line-of-Sight Anti-
Tank (LOSAT) and provides that of funds available under the 
heading, ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
Wide'' in Public Law105-262, $10,027,000 is only available for 
the Air Defense Surface to Air Missile.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8116) 
which amends House language which provides that none of the 
funds under the heading, ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' in Public Law 105-262 are available 
for the Medium Extended Air Defense System.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8121) 
which amends House language to enhance DoD oversight of 
information technology systems.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8124) 
which amends House language that permits competitive auction of 
communication frequencies.
      The new subsection (subsection (c)) reaffirms 
Congressional intent, as reflected in section 337(d)(4) of the 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997, that the FCC must ensure that the 
spectrum to be used for public safety is protected from 
interference. Section 337(a)(1) of that Act directed the FCC to 
allocate 24 megahertz for public safety uses, while the current 
legislation would accelerate the timing of the auction of 36 
megahertz of neighboring spectrum which had been allocated in 
section 337(d)(2) of the 1997 Act. Because the public safety 
spectrum is adjacent to the spectrum now being auctioned, it is 
important to affirm that the interference directive in section 
337(d) is not being superceded by the current legislation.
      The Congress, in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, 
required that public safety services be permitted to operate 
free from interference from neighboring spectrum. This 
subsection will reiterate, along with the statutory direction 
that the auction will be accelerated, that such protection for 
public safety spectrum must be maintained.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8126) 
which amends House language prohibiting the transfer of armor 
piercing ammunition to any non-governmental entity.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8127) 
which amends Senate language to provide for the waiver of 
payments by the National Guard for the use of equipment by 
certain non-profit organizations.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8129) 
which amends Senate language that reflects the amounts 
appropriated for military personnel pay and retirement reform 
in the Fiscal Year 1999 Supplemental Appropriations Act.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8130) 
which amends Senate language to limit the funding that can be 
obligated through indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity 
environmental contracts.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8133) 
as proposed by the Senate and amended, providing the Secretary 
of the Air Force the authority to lease aircraft for 
operational support purposes. The conferees direct that 
aircraft leased under this pilot program shall be commercially 
available, serving similar purposes in the commercial 
marketplace. The conferees believe that the Department of 
Defense could realize significant operations and support 
savings through employing the fewest aircraft types of a common 
configuration. In that regard, the Secretary shall make every 
attempt to lease aircraft of the type and configuration common 
to the DoD inventory and use accompanying logistics support 
mechanisms already in place. Modifications to these aircraft 
should be kept to a minimum to allow timely conversion to a 
marketable, civilian configuration, at minimum cost, if the 
aircraft are subsequently replaced.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8134) which reduces funding for Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force to reflect unobligated amounts available in Public Law 
106-31 for Readiness/Munitions.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8136) 
which amends Senate language on the U.S. Atlantic Command joint 
experimentation program.
      The conferees included a general provision (Section 8137) 
which amends Senate language concerning the American Red Cross 
for Armed Forces Emergency Services.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8143) which provides funds for the United Service Organizations 
(USO).
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8144) which directs the Department of the Army to submit a 
report to the Congress detailing its efforts to reduce the 
costs the Abrams M1A2 Tank Upgrade program before initiating a 
multi-year procurement contract.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8145) which conditions the new C-17 multiyear authority 
provided in this Act upon certification by the Secretary of the 
Air Force that the average unit flyaway price of C-17 aircraft 
in a new multiyear contract will be at least twenty-five 
percent less than the average unit flyaway price of aircraft in 
the current multiyear contract.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8146) which establishes a transfer account for additional F-22 
test aircraft and advanced procurement.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8147) which provides $300,000,000 for F-22 termination 
liability.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8148) which provides a grant for evaluating a standards and 
performance based academic model at DoD schools.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8149) which prohibits the payment of environmental fines or 
penalties unless specifically authorized by law.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8150) which amends Section 8145 of the fiscal year 1999 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act concerning the 
demolition of buildings at the former Norton Air Force Base.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8151) which provides a grant for public schools with a high 
concentration of special needs military dependents.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8152) which makes a technical correction regarding the transfer 
of Military Construction funds appropriated in the fiscal year 
1999 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8153) which amends Section 127 of the fiscal year 1995 Military 
Construction Appropriations Act regarding the conveyance of 
Navy Reserve Center, Seattle, Washington.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8154) which permits the Army to use Operation and Maintenance, 
Army funds for remediation activities at Camp Edwards.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8155) which allows the Air Force to convey surplus relocatable 
housing.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8156) which allows the Department of Defense to adjust the 
cost-share for the Arrow Deployability Program.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8157) that directs the Department of Defense to identify 
additional liabilities and requests for equitable adjustments 
and provide a report to the congressional defense committees on 
the extent of health care contract claims.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8158) which provides funds for a community retraining, 
reinvestment and manufacturing initiative.
      The conferees have included a new general provision 
(Section 8159) which directs the Secretary of Defense to submit 
a report on the management of the chemical weapons 
demilitarization program.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8160) regarding fiscal year 2000 military construction 
projects.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8161) which allows the Secretary of Defense to treat the 
opening of the National D-Day Museum as an official event.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8162) which establishes the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8163) which allows the Secretary of the Air Force to accept 
contributions from the State of New York for the Rome Research 
Site.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8164) which is a technical correction related to funds provided 
in Public Law 105-277.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8165) requiring a report from the Secretary of Defense on the 
status and adequacy of planned expenditures for low density, 
high demand military assets.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8166) which provides funds for Chicago Public Schools for the 
conversion and expansion of the former Eighth Regiment National 
Guard Armory.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8167) which provides $10,000,000 for an aviation support 
facility for the Army National Guard.
      The conferees included a new provision (Section 8168), as 
proposed by the Senate, and amended by the House, which 
provides for the Brooks Air Force Base Demonstration Project 
known as the ``Base Efficiency Project''. Implementation of 
this provision is delayed until June 15, 2000. It is the 
conferees' intention that the Committees on Appropriations 
conduct a thorough review to ensure that this legislation is in 
the best interest of the Department of Defense and does not 
prejudice the Base Realignment and Closure process.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8169) which reduces the amounts provided in title II of the 
conference report for depot level maintenance and repair by 
$400,000,000, and directs that $400,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated in section 2008 of title II, chapter 3 of Public 
Law 106-31 (the fiscal year 1999 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act) that remain unobligated be made available 
to fund these requirements.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8170) which reduces the amounts provided in title II of the 
conference report for spare and repair parts and associated 
logistical support by $550,000,000, and directs that 
$550,000,000 of the funds appropriated in section 2007 of title 
II, chapter 3 of Public Law 106-31 that remain unobligated be 
made available to fund these requirements.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8171) which reduces the amounts provided in title II of the 
conference report for base operations support costs by 
$100,000,000, and directs that $100,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated in section 2011 of title II, chapter 3 of Public 
Law 106-31 that remain unobligated be made available to fund 
these requirements.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8172) which reduces funding for various accounts in the title 
III of the conference report for procurement of munitions, 
taking into account various munitions procurements which will 
be accomplished with funds provided in title II, chapter 3 of 
Public Law 106-31. These reductions are to be allocated as 
follows, consistent with the increased funding for these items 
which was provided in Public Law 106-31 and since has been 
designated as emergency appropriations by the President:
      Weapons Procurement, Navy--Tomahawk
      Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps--General 
Purpose Bombs, JDAM
      Aircraft Procurement, Air Force--ALE-50
      Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force--General Purpose 
Bombs, JDAM
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8173) which reduces operation and maintenance funding, and 
provides emergency funding for the same activities.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8174) which prohibits the use of any funds in this bill for the 
American Heritage Rivers Initiative.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8175) to adjust the payment of progress payments.
      The conferees included a new general provision (Section 
8176) to adjust payment procedures and policies.
      The conferees included a new title IX, as proposed by the 
Senate (Senate title X) as amended, relating to sanctions on 
India and Pakistan.

                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2000 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 1999 amount, the 2000 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2000 
follow:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 1999...    $250,520,548
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2000...........................................     263,265,959
House bill, fiscal year 2000............................     268,661,503
Senate bill, fiscal year 2000...........................     264,693,100
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2000..................     267,795,360
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      1999..............................................     +17,274,812
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2000..................................      +4,529,401
    House bill, fiscal year 2000........................        -866,143
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2000.......................      +3,102,260

                                   Jerry Lewis,
                                   C.W. Bill Young,
                                   Joe Skeen,
                                   David L. Hobson,
                                   Henry Bonilla,
                                   George R. Nethercutt, Jr.,
                                   Ernest J. Istook, Jr.,
                                   Randy ``Duke'' Cunningham,
                                   Jay Dickey,
                                   Rodney P. Frelinghuysen,
                                   John P. Murtha,
                                   Norman D. Dicks,
                                   Martin Olav Sabo,
                                   Julian C. Dixon,
                                   Peter J. Visclosky,
                                   James P. Moran,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Ted Stevens,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                   Arlen Specter,
                                   Pete V. Domenici,
                                   Christopher S. Bond,
                                   Mitch McConnell,
                                   Richard C. Shelby,
                                   Judd Gregg,
                                   Kay Bailey Hutchison,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Ernest F. Hollings,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                   Patrick J. Leahy,
                                   Frank R. Lautenberg,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Richard J. Durbin,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.