[House Report 106-110]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]





106th Congress                                                   Report
  1st Session           HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES                106-110

=======================================================================



 
                 J.J. ``JAKE'' PICKLE FEDERAL BUILDING

                                _______
                                

   April 27, 1999.--Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

                                _______


 Mr. Shuster, from the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
                        submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 118]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to whom 
was referred the bill (H.R. 118) to designate the Federal 
building located at 300 East 8th Street in Austin, Texas, as 
the ``J.J. `Jake' Pickle Federal Building'', having considered 
the same, report favorably thereon without amendment and 
recommend that the bill do pass.
    James Jarrell ``Jake'' Pickle was born in Roscoe, Texas, on 
October 11, 1913. He attended public schools and earned his 
B.A. from the University of Texas in 1938.
    Upon graduation from college, Congressman Pickle accepted 
and held the position of Area Director for the National Youth 
Administration, from 1938 until 1941. He then spent the next 
three and a half years with the United States Navy in the 
Pacific during World War II.
    After serving in the Navy, Congressman Pickle returned to 
Austin, Texas, and entered the radio business, and engaged in 
advertising, and public relations from 1946 to 1956. From 1957 
until 1960, Congressman Pickle served as the Director of the 
Texas State Democratic Executive Committee. In 1961, he was 
appointed to the Texas Employment Commission and served on the 
commission until his resignation in 1963. In 1963, Congressman 
Pickle was elected to the United States House of 
Representatives in a special election to fill a vacant seat 
created by Congressman Thornberry's resignation. He was then 
re-elected to the next fifteen succeeding Congresses until his 
retirement on January 3, 1995.
    During his tenure in Congress, Congressman Pickle provided 
a strong voice on civil rights issues. He vigorously advocated 
and supported such historic legislation as the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act. For over thirty years, 
Congressman Pickle continuously worked on behalf of civil 
rights issues, and equal opportunities for women and 
minorities. In addition, as Chair of the Ways and Means 
Oversight Subcommittee and the Social Security Subcommittee, he 
worked to shape the system of Medicare and see that it 
fulfilled its intended purpose of providing basic health care 
for those that required assistance, and assured the continuance 
of Social Security.
    Congressman Pickle was a dedicated public servant who 
remained close to his Texas constituents. This legislation 
honors Congressman Pickle.

                    Hearings and Legislative History

    No hearings were held on H.R. 118.

                        committee consideration

    On April 22, 1999, the Full Committee met in open session 
and ordered reported H.R. 118, to designate the federal 
building located at 300 East 8th Street, Austin, Texas as the 
``J.J. `Jake' Pickle Federal Building,'' approved April 21, 
1999 by the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public 
Buildings, Hazardous Materials and Pipeline Transportation, by 
voice vote with a quorum present. There were no recorded votes 
taken during Committee consideration of H.R. 118.

                             Rollcall votes

    Clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the House of Representatives 
requires each committee report to include the total number of 
votes cast for and against on each rollcall vote on a motion to 
report and on any amendment offered to the measure or matter, 
and the names of those members voting for and against. There 
were no recorded votes taken in connection with ordering H.R. 
118 favorably reported. A motion by Mr. Franks to order H.R. 
118 favorably reported to the House was agreed to by voice 
vote, a quorum being present.

                      committee oversight findings

    With respect to the requirements of clause 3(c)(1) of rule 
XIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee's oversight findings and recommendations are 
reflected in this report.

                          cost of legislation

    Clause 3(d)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives does not apply where a cost estimate and 
comparison prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office under section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974 has been timely submitted prior to the filing of the 
report and is included in the report. Such a cost estimate is 
included in this report.

                    compliance with house rule xiii

    1. With respect to the requirement of clause 3(c)(2) of 
rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives, and 
308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Committee 
references the report of the Congressional Budget Office 
included below.
    2. With respect to the requirement of clause 3(c)(4) of 
rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee has received no report of oversight findings and 
recommendations from the Committee on Government Reform on the 
subject of H.R. 118.
    3. With respect to the requirement of clause 3(c)(3) of 
rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives and 
section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the 
Committee has received the following cost estimate for H.R. 118 
from the Director of the Congressional Budget Office.

                                     U.S. Congress,
                               Congressional Budget Office,
                                    Washington, DC, April 26, 1999.
Hon. Bud Shuster,
Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of 
        Representatives, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
reviewed the following bills, which were ordered reported by 
the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure on 
April 22, 1999. CBO estimates that their enactment would have 
no significant impact on the federal budget, and would not 
affect direct spending or receipts; therefore, pay-as-you-go 
procedures would not apply. The bills contain no 
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the 
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would impose no costs or 
state, local, or tribal governments. The bills reviewed are:
          H.R. 118, a bill to designate the federal building 
        located at 300 East 8th Street, in Austin, Texas, as 
        the ``J.J. `Jake' Pickle Federal Building'';
          H.R. 560, a bill to designate the federal building 
        and United States courthouse located at the 
        intersection of Comercio and San Justo Streets in San 
        Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ``Jose V. Toledo Federal 
        Building and United States Courthouse'';
          H.R. 686, a bill to designate a United States 
        courthouse in Brownsville, Texas, as the ``Garza-Vela 
        United States Courthouse'';
          H.R. 1121, a bill to designate the federal building 
        and United States courthouse located at 18 Greenville 
        Street in Newman, Georgia, as the ``Lewis R. Morgan 
        Federal Building and United States Courthouse'';
          S. 437, an act to designate the United States 
        Courthouse under construction at 333 Las Vegas 
        Boulevard South in Las Vegas, Nevada, as the ``Lloyd D. 
        George United States Courthouse''; and
          S. 460, an act to designate the United States 
        courthouse located at 401 South Michigan Street in 
        South Bend, Indiana, as the ``Robert K. Rodibaugh 
        United States Bankruptcy Courthouse.''
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is John R. 
Righter.
            Sincerely,
                                          Barry B. Anderson
                                    (For Dan L. Crippen, Director).

                   constitutional authority statement

    Pursuant to clause (3)(d)(1) of rule XIII of the Rules of 
the House of Representatives, committee reports on a bill or 
joint resolution of a public character shall include a 
statement citing the specific powers granted to the Congress in 
the Constitution to enact the measure. The Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure finds that Congress has the 
authority to enact this measure pursuant to its powers granted 
under article I, section 8 of the Constitution.

                       federal mandates statement

    The Committee adopts as its own the estimate of Federal 
mandates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act. (Public Law 104-4.)

                      advisory committee statement

    No advisory committees within the meaning of section 5(b) 
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act were created by this 
legislation.

                applicability to the legislative branch

    The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to 
the terms and conditions of employment or access to public 
services or accommodations within the meaning of section 
102(b)(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act. (Public Law 
104-1.)