109th Congress                                                   Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 1st Session                                                    109-272

======================================================================

 
 MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR SCIENCE, THE DEPARTMENTS OF STATE, JUSTICE, 
AND COMMERCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 
                    30, 2006, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

                                _______
                                

                November 7, 2005.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

  Mr. Wolf, from the committee of conference, submitted the following

                           CONFERENCE REPORT

                        [To accompany H.R. 2862]

      The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses on the amendments of the Senate to the bill 
(H.R. 2862) ``making appropriations for Science, the 
Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006, and for 
other purposes'', having met, after full and free conference, 
have agreed to recommend and do recommend to their respective 
Houses as follows:
      That the House recede from its disagreement to the 
amendment of the Senate to the text, and agree to the same with 
an amendment, as follows:
      In lieu of the matter stricken and inserted by said 
amendment, insert:

                  Conference Report (H. Rept. 109-272)

    The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the 
two Houses on the amendments of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
2862) ``making appropriations for Science, the Departments of 
State, Justice, and Commerce, and related agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2006, and for other 
purposes'', having met, after full and free conference, have 
agreed to recommend and do recommend to their respective Houses 
as follows:
    That the House recede from its disagreement to the 
amendment of the Senate to the text, and agree to the same with 
an amendment, as follows:
    In lieu of the matter stricken and inserted by said 
amendment, insert:
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2006, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the 
Department of Justice, $124,456,000, of which not to exceed 
$3,317,000 is for the Facilities Program 2000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed 45 
permanent positions and 46 full-time equivalent workyears and 
$11,821,000 shall be expended for the Department Leadership 
Program exclusive of augmentation that occurred in these 
offices in fiscal year 2005: Provided further, That not to 
exceed 26 permanent positions, 21 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $3,480,000 shall be expended for the Office of 
Legislative Affairs: Provided further, That not to exceed 17 
permanent positions, 22 full-time equivalent workyears and 
$2,764,000 shall be expended for the Office of Public Affairs: 
Provided further, That the Offices of Legislative Affairs and 
Public Affairs may utilize, on a non-reimbursable basis details 
of career employees within the ceilings provided for the Office 
of Legislative Affairs and the Office of Public Affairs: 
Provided further, That not less than $500,000 shall be used to 
contract with an independent party to carry out a privacy 
assessment.

                 JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and Departmental 
direction, $125,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That, of the funds available $10,000,000 is for the 
unified financial management system to be administered by the 
Unified Financial Management System Executive Council: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided, $20,000,000 is unavailable 
for obligation until the Department Chief Information Officer 
submits the plan described in section 110 of this title.

         NARROWBAND COMMUNICATIONS/INTEGRATED WIRELESS NETWORK

    For the costs of conversion to narrowband communications, 
including the cost for operation and maintenance of Land Mobile 
Radio legacy systems, $90,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2007: Provided, That the Attorney General shall 
transfer to this account all funds made available to the 
Department of Justice for the purchase of portable and mobile 
radios: Provided further, That any transfer made under the 
preceding proviso shall be subject to section 605 of this Act.

                   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration-related activities, 
$215,685,000.

                           DETENTION TRUSTEE

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Detention Trustee, 
$1,222,000,000, of which $45,000,000 shall be derived from 
prior year unobligated balances from funds previously 
appropriated, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Trustee shall be responsible for managing the Justice 
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System and for overseeing 
housing related to such detention: Provided further, That any 
unobligated balances available in prior years from the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Federal Prisoner Detention'' 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation under 
the heading ``Detention Trustee'' and shall be available until 
expended.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$68,801,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole 
Commission as authorized, $11,000,000.

                            Legal Activities

            SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL ACTIVITIES

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the 
Department of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including 
not to exceed $20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to 
be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for 
solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; and rent 
of private or Government-owned space in the District of 
Columbia, $661,959,000, of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $1,000 shall be available to the United States 
National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 105 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney 
General that emergent circumstances require additional funding 
for litigation activities of the Civil Division, the Attorney 
General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries and Expenses, 
General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations for 
the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may 
be necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the 
Department of Justice associated with processing cases under 
the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to 
exceed $6,333,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury 
Compensation Trust Fund.

               SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and 
kindred laws, $144,451,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $116,000,000 of offsetting collections derived from 
fees collected for premerger notification filings under the 
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 
18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be retained 
and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
fiscal year 2006, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2006 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$28,451,000.

             SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative 
agreements, $1,600,000,000: Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $8,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $1,500,000 shall only be 
available to continue ``Operation Streetsweeper''.

                   UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee 
Program, as authorized, $214,402,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee 
System Fund: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, deposits to the Fund shall be available in 
such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds due depositors: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, $214,402,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to 28 
U.S.C. 589a(b) shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation and remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections 
are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the Fund estimated at 
$0.

      SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMISSION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $1,320,000.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals 
Service, $793,031,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses; 
of which $4,000,000 for information technology systems shall 
remain available until expended; and of which not less than 
$12,000,000 shall be available for the costs of courthouse 
security equipment, including furnishings, relocations, and 
telephone systems and cabling, and shall remain available until 
expended.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized 
by the United States Marshals Service in United States 
courthouses and Federal buildings, $8,883,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of 
contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, including advances, 
such sums as are necessary, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $10,000,000 may be made available 
for construction of buildings for protected witness safesites: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made 
available for the purchase and maintenance of armored vehicles 
for transportation of protected witnesses: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $9,000,000 may be made available for the 
purchase, installation, maintenance and upgrade of secure 
telecommunications equipment and a secure automated information 
network to store and retrieve the identities and locations of 
protected witnesses.

           SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$9,659,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 105 of this 
Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict 
resolution and violence prevention activities of the Community 
Relations Service, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to the Community Relations Service, from available 
appropriations for the current fiscal year for the Department 
of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
the previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under 
section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                         ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(B), (F), and 
(G), $21,468,000, to be derived from the Department of Justice 
Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT

    For necessary expenses for the identification, 
investigation, and prosecution of individuals associated with 
the most significant drug trafficking and affiliated money 
laundering organizations not otherwise provided for, to include 
inter-governmental agreements with State and local law 
enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $489,440,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated 
from appropriations under this heading may be used under 
authorities available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for detection, investigation, and prosecution of 
crimes against the United States; including purchase for 
police-type use of not to exceed 3,868 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which 3,039 will be for replacement only; and not 
to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 530C, 
$5,728,737,000; of which not to exceed $150,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended; of which $2,288,897,000 shall 
be for counterterrorism investigations, foreign 
counterintelligence, and other activities related to our 
national security; and of which not to exceed $25,000,000 is 
authorized to be made available for making advances for 
expenses arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements 
with State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged in 
cooperative activities related to violent crime, terrorism, 
organized crime, gang-related crime, cybercrime, and drug 
investigations: Provided, That not to exceed $205,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings 
and sites by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law 
(including equipment for such buildings); conversion and 
extension of Federally-owned buildings; and preliminary 
planning and design of projects; $37,608,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $15,108,000 shall be 
available for the planning, design, and construction of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation Center for Integrated Training 
and Technology Transfer in Redstone Arsenal: Provided further, 
That $5,000,000 shall be available for a chemical and 
biological evidence handling and storage facility to be co-
located with comparable facilities in existence for sample, 
handling and receipt of hazardous material by the Department of 
the Army: Provided further, That $10,000,000 shall be available 
for equipment and associated costs for a permanent central 
records complex in Frederick County, Virginia.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, including not to exceed $70,000 to meet 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character pursuant to 
28 U.S.C. 530C; expenses for conducting drug education and 
training programs, including travel and related expenses for 
participants in such programs and the distribution of items of 
token value that promote the goals of such programs; and 
purchase of not to exceed 1,043 passenger motor vehicles, of 
which 937 will be for replacement only, for police-type use, 
$1,686,457,000; of which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; and of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives, including the purchase of not to 
exceed 822 vehicles for police-type use, of which 650 shall be 
for replacement only; not to exceed $40,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; for training of State 
and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the 
training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire 
accelerants detection; and for provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with or 
without reimbursement, $923,613,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' 
fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no funds appropriated herein shall be available for 
salaries or administrative expenses in connection with 
consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of 
Justice, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition 
and disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms 
licensees: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be used to pay administrative expenses or the 
compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to 
implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to 
change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 
or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed 
on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act 
upon applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities 
under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall 
be available to investigate and act upon applications filed by 
corporations for relief from Federal firearms disabilities 
under section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Provided 
further, That no funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities 
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to 
other agencies or Departments in fiscal year 2006: Provided 
further, That no funds appropriated under this or any other Act 
with respect to any fiscal year may be used to disclose part or 
all of the contents of the Firearms Trace System database 
maintained by the National Trace Center of the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives or any information 
required to be kept by licensees pursuant to section 923(g) of 
title 18, United States Code, or required to be reported 
pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (7) of such section 923(g), to 
anyone other than a Federal, State, or local law enforcement 
agency or a prosecutor solely in connection with and for use in 
a bona fide criminal investigation or prosecution and then only 
such information as pertains to the geographic jurisdiction of 
the law enforcement agency requesting the disclosure and not 
for use in any civil action or proceeding other than an action 
or proceeding commenced by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives, or a review of such an action or 
proceeding, to enforce the provisions of chapter 44 of such 
title, and all such data shall be immune from legal process and 
shall not be subject to subpoena or other discovery, shall be 
inadmissible in evidence, and shall not be used, relied on, or 
disclosed in any manner, nor shall testimony or other evidence 
be permitted based upon such data, in any civil action pending 
on or filed after the effective date of this Act in any State 
(including the District of Columbia) or Federal court or in any 
administrative proceeding other than a proceeding commenced by 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to 
enforce the provisions of that chapter, or a review of such an 
action or proceeding; except that this proviso shall not be 
construed to prevent the disclosure of statistical information 
concerning total production, importation, and exportation by 
each licensed importer (as defined in section 921(a)(9) of such 
title) and licensed manufacturer (as defined in section 
921(a)(10) of such title): Provided further, That no funds made 
available by this or any other Act shall be expended to 
promulgate or implement any rule requiring a physical inventory 
of any business licensed under section 923 of title 18, United 
States Code: Provided further, That no funds under this Act may 
be used to electronically retrieve information gathered 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or any personal 
identification code: Provided further, That no funds authorized 
or made available under this or any other Act may be used to 
deny any application for a license under section 923 of title 
18, United States Code, or renewal of such a license due to a 
lack of business activity, provided that the applicant is 
otherwise eligible to receive such a license, and is eligible 
to report business income or to claim an income tax deduction 
for business expenses under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be for the expenses necessary for site selection, architectural 
design, site preparation and the development of a total cost 
estimate for the construction of a permanent site for the 
National Center for Explosives Training and Research: Provided 
further, That any funds remaining shall be applied to the 
construction of the Center: Provided further, That the Director 
of the ATF, when considering site selection shall consider a 
site collocated with other law enforcement and Federal 
government entities that provide similar training and research.

                         Federal Prison System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, including purchase (not to exceed 
768, of which 701 are for replacement only) and hire of law 
enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for the provision 
of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments, $4,892,649,000: Provided, That 
the Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources and 
Services Administration such amounts as may be necessary for 
direct expenditures by that Administration for medical relief 
for inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions: 
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal 
agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the 
amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison 
System, furnish health services to individuals committed to the 
custody of the Federal Prison System: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available for necessary 
operations until September 30, 2007: Provided further, That, of 
the amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make 
payments in advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable 
agreements, and other expenses authorized by section 501(c) of 
the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, for the care and 
security in the United States of Cuban and Haitian entrants: 
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System may accept donated property and services relating to the 
operation of the prison card program from a not-for-profit 
entity which has operated such program in the past 
notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-profit entity 
furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison System 
relating to the operation of pre-release services, halfway 
houses or other custodial facilities.

                        BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and 
remodeling, and equipping of such facilities for penal and 
correctional use, including all necessary expenses incident 
thereto, by contract or force account; and constructing, 
remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and facilities at 
existing penal and correctional institutions, including all 
necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force 
account, $90,112,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $14,000,000 shall be available to construct 
areas for inmate work programs: Provided, That labor of United 
States prisoners may be used for work performed under this 
appropriation.

                FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of 
funds and borrowing authority available, and in accord with the 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments, without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 
31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for 
such corporation, including purchase (not to exceed five for 
replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

   LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES, FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, 
                              INCORPORATED

    Not to exceed $3,365,000 of the funds of the corporation 
shall be available for its administrative expenses, and for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an 
accrual basis to be determined in accordance with the 
corporation's current prescribed accounting system, and such 
amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of claims, 
and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or 
produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses 
in connection with acquisition, construction, operation, 
maintenance, improvement, protection, or disposition of 
facilities and other property belonging to the corporation or 
in which it has an interest.

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND PROSECUTION PROGRAMS

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance for the prevention and prosecution of violence 
against women as authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) 
(``the 1994 Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
(``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools 
to End the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public 
Law 108-21); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention 
Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); and the Victims of Trafficking 
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); 
$386,502,000, including amounts for administrative costs, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That except as 
otherwise provided by law, not to exceed three percent of funds 
made available under this heading may be used for expenses 
related to evaluation, training and technical assistance: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided--
            (1) $11,897,000 for the court-appointed special 
        advocate program, as authorized by section 217 of the 
        1990 Act;
            (2) $2,287,000 for child abuse training programs 
        for judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized 
        by section 222 of the 1990 Act;
            (3) $986,000 for grants for televised testimony, as 
        authorized by Part N of the 1968 Act;
            (4) $187,308,000 for grants to combat violence 
        against women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act, 
        of which--
                    (A) $5,100,000 shall be for the National 
                Institute of Justice for research and 
                evaluation of violence against women;
                    (B) $10,000,000 shall be for the Office of 
                Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for 
                the Safe Start Program, as authorized by the 
                1974 Act; and
                    (C) $15,000,000 shall be for transitional 
                housing assistance grants for victims of 
                domestic violence, stalking or sexual assault 
                as authorized by Public Law 108-21;
            (5) $63,075,000 for grants to encourage arrest 
        policies as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act;
            (6) $39,166,000 for rural domestic violence and 
        child abuse enforcement assistance grants, as 
        authorized by section 40295(a) of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $4,958,000 for training programs as authorized 
        by section 40152 of the 1994 Act, and for related local 
        demonstration projects;
            (8) $2,962,000 for grants to improve the stalking 
        and domestic violence databases, as authorized by 
        section 40602 of the 1994 Act;
            (9) $9,054,000 to reduce violent crimes against 
        women on campus, as authorized by section 1108(a) of 
        Public Law 106-386;
            (10) $39,220,000 for legal assistance for victims, 
        as authorized by section 1201(c) of Public Law 106-386;
            (11) $4,540,000 for enhancing protection for older 
        and disabled women from domestic violence and sexual 
        assault, as authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 
        Act;
            (12) $13,894,000 for the safe havens for children 
        pilot program, as authorized by section 1301(a) of 
        Public Law 106-386; and
            (13) $7,155,000 for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, 
        as authorized by section 1402(a) of Public Law 106-386.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           JUSTICE ASSISTANCE

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968, the Missing Children's Assistance 
Act, including salaries and expenses in connection therewith, 
the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21), 
the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405), and the 
Victims of Crime Act of 1984, $233,233,000, to remain available 
until expended.

               STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(``the 1968 Act''); and the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); and other 
programs; $1,142,707,000 (including amounts for administrative 
costs, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
``Justice Assistance'' account): Provided, That funding 
provided under this heading shall remain available until 
expended, as follows--
            (1) $416,478,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial 
        Justice Assistance Grant program pursuant to the 
        amendments made by section 201 of H.R. 3036 of the 
        108th Congress, as passed by the House of 
        Representatives on March 30, 2004 (except that the 
        special rules for Puerto Rico established pursuant to 
        such amendments shall not apply for purposes of this 
        Act), of which--
                    (A) $10,000,000 is for the National 
                Institute of Justice in assisting units of 
                local government to identify, select, develop, 
                modernize, and purchase new technologies for 
                use by law enforcement; and
                    (B) $85,000,000 for Boys and Girls Clubs in 
                public housing facilities and other areas in 
                cooperation with State and local law 
                enforcement, as authorized by section 401 of 
                Public Law 104-294 (42 U.S.C. 13751 note);
            (2) $405,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien 
        Assistance Program, as authorized by section 242(j) of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act;
            (3) $30,000,000 for the Southwest Border Prosecutor 
        Initiative to reimburse State, county, parish, tribal, 
        or municipal governments only for costs associated with 
        the prosecution of criminal cases declined by local 
        United States Attorneys offices;
            (4) $191,704,000 for discretionary grants 
        authorized by subpart 2 of part E, of title I of the 
        1968 Act, notwithstanding the provisions of section 511 
        of said Act;
            (5) $10,000,000 for victim services programs for 
        victims of trafficking, as authorized by section 
        107(b)(2) of Public Law 106-386;
            (6) $850,000 for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease 
        Patient Alert Program, as authorized by section 
        240001(c) of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $10,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by 
        Part EE of the 1968 Act;
            (8) $7,500,000 for a prescription drug monitoring 
        program;
            (9) $18,175,000 for prison rape prevention and 
        prosecution programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape 
        Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79), of which 
        $2,175,000 shall be transferred to the National Prison 
        Rape Elimination Commission for authorized activities;
            (10) $10,000,000 for grants for residential 
        substance abuse treatment for State prisoners, as 
        authorized by part S of the 1968 Act;
            (11) $10,000,000 for a program to improve State and 
        local law enforcement intelligence capabilities 
        including antiterrorism training and training to ensure 
        that constitutional rights, civil liberties, civil 
        rights, and privacy interests are protected throughout 
        the intelligence process;
            (12) $1,000,000 for a capital litigation 
        improvement grant program;
            (13) $5,000,000 for a cannabis eradication program 
        to be administered by the Drug Enforcement 
        Administration;
            (14) $22,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes, 
        of which--
                    (A) $9,000,000 shall be available for 
                grants under section 20109(a)(2) of subtitle A 
                of title II of the 1994 Act;
                    (B) $8,000,000 shall be available for the 
                Tribal Courts Initiative; and
                    (C) $5,000,000 shall be available for 
                demonstration projects on alcohol and crime in 
                Indian Country; and
            (15) $5,000,000 for mental health courts and adult 
        and juvenile collaboration program grants, as 
        authorized by parts V and HH of title I of the 1968 
        Act:
Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the 
funds made available under this title to increase the number of 
law enforcement officers, the unit of local government will 
achieve a net gain in the number of law enforcement officers 
who perform nonadministrative public safety service.

                       WEED AND SEED PROGRAM FUND

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related 
expenses of the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to 
implement ``Weed and Seed'' program activities, $50,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2007, for inter-
governmental agreements, including grants, cooperative 
agreements, and contracts, with State and local law enforcement 
agencies, non-profit organizations, and agencies of local 
government engaged in the investigation and prosecution of 
violent and gang-related crimes and drug offenses in ``Weed and 
Seed'' designated communities, and for either reimbursements or 
transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department of 
Justice and other Federal agencies which shall be specified by 
the Attorney General to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program 
strategy: Provided, That funds designated by Congress through 
language for other Department of Justice appropriation accounts 
for ``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be managed and 
executed by the Attorney General through the Executive Office 
for Weed and Seed: Provided further, That the Attorney General 
may direct the use of other Department of Justice funds and 
personnel in support of ``Weed and Seed'' program activities 
only after the Attorney General notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
in accordance with section 605 of this Act: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated for the Executive Office for 
Weed and Seed, not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be directed for 
comprehensive community development training and technical 
assistance.

                  COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and 
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (including 
administrative costs), $478,300,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the funds under this heading, not 
to exceed $2,575,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Justice Programs for reimbursable services associated with 
programs administered by the Community Oriented Policing 
Services Office: Provided further, That section 1703(b) and (c) 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(``the 1968 Act'') shall not apply to non-hiring grants made 
pursuant to part Q of title I thereof (42 U.S.C. 3796dd et 
seq.): Provided further, That up to $34,000,000 of balances 
made available as a result of prior year deobligations may be 
obligated for program management and administration, of which 
$5,000,000 shall be available for transfer to the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology: Provided further, That 
any balances made available as a result of prior year 
deobligations in excess of $34,000,000 shall only be obligated 
in accordance with section 605 of this Act. Of the amounts 
provided--
            (1) $30,000,000 is for the matching grant program 
        for law enforcement armor vests as authorized by 
        section 2501 of part Y of the 1968 Act, of which not to 
        exceed $3,000,000 may be for the National Institute of 
        Justice to test and evaluate vests;
            (2) $63,590,000 is for policing initiatives to 
        combat methamphetamine production and trafficking and 
        to enhance policing initiatives in ``drug hot spots'';
            (3) $139,904,000 is for a law enforcement 
        technologies and interoperable communications program;
            (4) $10,000,000 is for grants to upgrade criminal 
        records, as authorized under the Crime Identification 
        Technology Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 14601);
            (5) $5,000,000 is for an offender re-entry program;
            (6) $108,531,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
        enhancement program, and for other State, local and 
        Federal forensic activities, of which $4,000,000 shall 
        be for grant programs as authorized by sections 412 and 
        413 of Public Law 108-405;
            (7) $15,000,000 is for law enforcement assistance 
        to Indian tribes;
            (8) $40,000,000 for a national program to reduce 
        gang violence;
            (9) $4,000,000 is for training and technical 
        assistance;
            (10) $18,500,000 is for Paul Coverdell Forensic 
        Sciences Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of 
        the 1968 Act (42 U.S.C. 3797j et seq.);
            (11) $28,775,000 is for grants, contracts and other 
        assistance to States under section 102(b) of the Crime 
        Identification Technology Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 
        14601); and
            (12) $15,000,000 is for Project Safe Neighborhoods, 
        of which $4,500,000 is for the National District 
        Attorneys Association to conduct prosecutorial training 
        by the National Advocacy Center.

                       JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the Act''), and other juvenile 
justice programs, including salaries and expenses in connection 
therewith to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance, $342,739,000, to remain 
available until expended, as follows--
            (1) $712,000 for concentration of Federal efforts, 
        as authorized by section 204 of the Act;
            (2) $80,000,000 for State and local programs 
        authorized by section 221 of the Act, including 
        training and technical assistance to assist small, non-
        profit organizations with the Federal grants process;
            (3) $106,027,000 for demonstration projects, as 
        authorized by sections 261 and 262 of the Act;
            (4) $10,000,000 for juvenile mentoring programs;
            (5) $65,000,000 for delinquency prevention, as 
        authorized by section 505 of the Act, of which--
                    (A) $10,000,000 shall be for the Tribal 
                Youth Program;
                    (B) $25,000,000 shall be for a gang 
                resistance education and training program; and
                    (C) $25,000,000 shall be for grants of 
                $360,000 to each State and $6,640,000 shall be 
                available for discretionary grants to States, 
                for programs and activities to enforce State 
                laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic 
                beverages to minors or the purchase or 
                consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors, 
                prevention and reduction of consumption of 
                alcoholic beverages by minors, and for 
                technical assistance and training;
            (6) $1,000,000 for Project Childsafe;
            (7) $15,000,000 for the Secure Our Schools Act as 
        authorized by Public Law 106-386;
            (8) $15,000,000 for programs authorized by the 
        Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990; and
            (9) $50,000,000 for the Juvenile Accountability 
        Block Grants program as authorized by Public Law 107-
        273 and Guam shall be considered a State:
Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be 
used for research, evaluation, and statistics activities 
designed to benefit the programs or activities authorized: 
Provided further, That not more than 2 percent of each amount 
may be used for training and technical assistance: Provided 
further, That the previous two provisos shall not apply to 
demonstration projects, as authorized by sections 261 and 262 
of the Act: Provided further, That section 702(a) of Public Law 
88-352 shall apply to any grants for World Vision, described in 
H. Rpt. 108-792 and the statement of managers accompanying this 
Act, and awarded by the Attorney General.

                    PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS BENEFITS

    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized 
by part L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796), such sums as are 
necessary, as authorized by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 
(102 Stat. 4339-4340); and $4,884,000, to remain available 
until expended for payments as authorized by section 1201(b) of 
said Act; and $4,064,000 for educational assistance, as 
authorized by section 1212 of the 1968 Act.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
in this title for official reception and representation 
expenses, a total of not to exceed $60,000 from funds 
appropriated to the Department of Justice in this title shall 
be available to the Attorney General for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds appropriated by this title 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
carried to term, or in the case of rape: Provided, That should 
this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this title 
shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
in any way the performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 104. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide 
escort services necessary for a female inmate to receive such 
service outside the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in 
this section in any way diminishes the effect of section 103 
intended to address the philosophical beliefs of individual 
employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 105. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of 
funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated to ``Buildings and Facilities, Federal Prison 
System'' in this or any other Act may be transferred to 
``Salaries and Expenses, Federal Prison System'', or any other 
Department of Justice account, unless the President certifies 
that such a transfer is necessary to the national security 
interests of the United States, and such authority shall not be 
delegated, and shall be subject to section 605 of this Act.
    Sec. 106. The Attorney General is authorized to extend 
through September 30, 2007, the Personnel Management 
Demonstration Project transferred to the Attorney General 
pursuant to section 1115 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
Public Law 107-296 (6 U.S.C. 533) without limitation on the 
number of employees or the positions covered.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
Public Law 102-395 section 102(b) shall extend to the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in the conduct of 
undercover investigative operations and shall apply without 
fiscal year limitation with respect to any undercover 
investigative operation initiated by the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives that is necessary for the 
detection and prosecution of crimes against the United States.
    Sec. 108. None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act may be used for the purpose 
of transporting an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to 
conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than 
to a prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau 
of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
    Sec. 109. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television 
services, to rent or purchase videocassettes, videocassette 
recorders, or other audiovisual or electronic equipment used 
primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) The preceding sentence does not preclude the renting, 
maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic equipment 
for inmate training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 110. Within the funds provided under ``Justice 
Information Sharing Technology'', the Attorney General shall 
establish an investment review board, which the Deputy Attorney 
General shall head: Provided, That within 90 days of enactment 
of this Act, the Department shall submit a plan that outlines 
the governance structure and membership of the board: Provided 
further, That the Department shall submit to the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives, within 90 days 
of enactment of this Act, the project criteria that will 
initiate the board's oversight, to include a listing of all 
projects to be reviewed during fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 111. Section 3151(b) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended by--
            (1) striking paragraph (2)(A) and (B);
            (2) in paragraph (1) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (3) redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
    Sec. 112. Within the funds provided for the Drug 
Enforcement Administration, the Attorney General shall 
establish a Methamphetamine Task Force within the Drug 
Enforcement Administration which shall be responsible for 
improving and targeting the Federal Government's policies with 
respect to the production and trafficking of methamphetamine: 
Provided, That within 90 days of enactment of this Act, the 
Drug Enforcement Administration shall submit a plan that 
outlines the governance structure and membership of the task 
force: Provided further, That within 120 days the Drug 
Enforcement Administration shall submit to the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives the membership 
of the task force and powers established for the task force.
    Sec. 113. (a) Section 4(a) of the Prison Rape Elimination 
Act of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15603(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, except as 
        authorized in paragraph (7)'' before the period at the 
        end; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(7) Reporting on child abuse and neglect.--
        Nothing in sections 304 or 812 of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
        U.S.C. 3735, 3789g) or any other provision of law, 
        including paragraph (5), shall prevent the Bureau 
        (including its agents), in carrying out the review and 
        analysis under paragraph (1), from reporting to the 
        designated public officials such information (and only 
        such information) regarding child abuse or child 
        neglect with respect to which the statutes or 
        regulations of a State (or a political subdivision 
        thereof) require prompt reporting.''.
    (b) Section 7(d)(3)(A) of the Prison Rape Elimination Act 
of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15606(d)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``2 
years'' and inserting ``3 years''.
    Sec. 114. The Attorney General shall waive the matching 
requirement for the purchase of bulletproof vests of the 
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998 for any law 
enforcement agency that purchased defective Zylon-based body 
armor with Federal funds pursuant to such Act between October 
1, 1998, and September 30, 2005, and seeks to replace that 
Zylon-based body armor, provided that the law enforcement 
agency can present documentation to prove the purchase of 
Zylon-based body armor with funds awarded to it under such Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2006''.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
Trade Representative, including the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and the employment of experts and consultants as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $44,779,000, of which $1,000,000 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $124,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not less than 
$2,000,000 provided under this heading shall be for expenses 
authorized by 19 U.S.C. 2451 and 1677b(c): Provided further, 
That negotiations shall be conducted within the World Trade 
Organization to recognize the right of members to distribute 
monies collected from antidumping and countervailing duties: 
Provided further, That negotiations shall be conducted within 
the World Trade Organization consistent with the negotiating 
objectives contained in the Trade Act of 2002, Public Law 107-
210.

                     International Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade 
Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed 
$2,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$62,752,000, to remain available until expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities 
of the Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for 
engaging in trade promotional activities abroad, including 
expenses of grants and cooperative agreements for the purpose 
of promoting exports of United States firms, without regard to 
44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical coverage for dependent 
members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas 
and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel and 
transportation of employees of the United States and Foreign 
Commercial Service between two points abroad, without regard to 
49 U.S.C. 40118; employment of Americans and aliens by contract 
for services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 
10 years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; 
purchase or construction of temporary demountable exhibition 
structures for use abroad; payment of tort claims, in the 
manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $327,000 
for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to exceed 
$45,000 per vehicle; obtaining insurance on official motor 
vehicles; and rental of tie lines, $406,925,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007, of which $8,000,000 is to 
be derived from fees to be retained and used by the 
International Trade Administration, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302: Provided, That $47,434,000 shall be for Manufacturing and 
Services; $39,815,000 shall be for Market Access and 
Compliance; $62,134,000 shall be for the Import Administration 
of which not less than $3,000,000 is for the Office of China 
Compliance; $231,722,000 shall be for the United States and 
Foreign Commercial Service; and $25,820,000 shall be for 
Executive Direction and Administration: Provided further, That 
negotiations shall be conducted within the World Trade 
Organization to recognize the right of members to distribute 
monies collected from antidumping and countervailing duties: 
Provided further, That the provisions of the first sentence of 
section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities without regard to section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade 
and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4912); and that for 
the purpose of this Act, contributions under the provisions of 
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 shall 
include payment for assessments for services provided as part 
of these activities: Provided further, That the International 
Trade Administration shall be exempt from the requirements of 
Circular A-25 (or any successor administrative regulation or 
policy) issued by the Office of Management and Budget: Provided 
further, That negotiations shall be conducted within the World 
Trade Organization consistent with the negotiating objectives 
contained in the Trade Act of 2002, Public Law 107-210.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

    For necessary expenses for export administration and 
national security activities of the Department of Commerce, 
including costs associated with the performance of export 
administration field activities both domestically and abroad; 
full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
families of employees stationed overseas; employment of 
Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; payment 
of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph 
of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; 
not to exceed $15,000 for official representation expenses 
abroad; awards of compensation to informers under the Export 
Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
401(b); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official 
use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to 
any price limitation otherwise established by law, $76,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $14,767,000 shall 
be for inspections and other activities related to national 
security: Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence 
of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities: Provided further, That payments and contributions 
collected and accepted for materials or services provided as 
part of such activities may be retained for use in covering the 
cost of such activities, and for providing information to the 
public with respect to the export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce and other 
export control programs of the United States and other 
governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided 
by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, and 
for trade adjustment assistance, $253,985,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic 
development assistance programs as provided for by law, 
$30,075,000: Provided, That these funds may be used to monitor 
projects approved pursuant to title I of the Public Works 
Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and 
the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in 
fostering, promoting, and developing minority business 
enterprise, including expenses of grants, contracts, and other 
agreements with public or private organizations, $30,024,000.

                Economic and Information Infrastructure

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic 
and statistical analysis programs of the Department of 
Commerce, $80,304,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007.

                          Bureau of the Census

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, 
analyzing, preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for 
by law, $198,029,000.

                     PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS

    For necessary expenses related to the 2010 decennial 
census, $453,596,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics 
for other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, 
$160,612,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided in this or any other 
Act for any fiscal year may be used for the collection of 
Census data on race identification that does not include ``some 
other race'' as a category.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
(NTIA), $18,068,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the 
Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for costs 
incurred in spectrum management, analysis, and operations, and 
related services and such fees shall be retained and used as 
offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as 
offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs 
incurred in telecommunications research, engineering, and 
related activities by the Institute for Telecommunication 
Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions 
under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION

    For the administration of grants authorized by section 392 
of the Communications Act of 1934, $22,000,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 391 of the 
Act: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be available 
for program administration as authorized by section 391 of the 
Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 391 of the Act, the prior year unobligated balances may 
be made available for grants for projects for which 
applications have been submitted and approved during any fiscal 
year.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office provided for by law, including defense of 
suits instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent 
and Trademark Office, $1,683,086,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections 
assessed and collected pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 and 35 U.S.C. 
41 and 376 are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to 
result in a fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
2006, should the total amount of offsetting fee collections be 
less than $1,683,086,000, this amount shall be reduced 
accordingly: Provided further, That not less than 657 full-time 
equivalents, 690 positions and $85,017,000 shall be for the 
examination of trademark applications; and not less than 5,810 
full-time equivalents, 6,241 positions and $906,142,000 shall 
be for the examination and searching of patent applications: 
Provided further, That not more than 265 full-time equivalents, 
272 positions and $37,490,000 shall be for the Office of the 
General Counsel: Provided further, That not more than 82 full-
time equivalents, 83 positions and $25,393,000 shall be for the 
Office of the Administrator for External Affairs: Provided 
further, That any deviation from the full-time equivalent, 
position, and funding designations set forth in the preceding 
four provisos shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That from amounts 
provided herein, not to exceed $1,000 shall be made available 
in fiscal year 2006 for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1353 
of title 31, United States Code, no employee of the United 
States Patent and Trademark Office may accept payment or 
reimbursement from a non-Federal entity for travel, 
subsistence, or related expenses for the purpose of enabling an 
employee to attend and participate in a convention, conference, 
or meeting when the entity offering payment or reimbursement is 
a person or corporation subject to regulation by the Office, or 
represents a person or corporation subject to regulation by the 
Office, unless the person or corporation is an organization 
exempt from taxation pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986: Provided further, That in fiscal 
year 2006, from the amounts made available for ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' for the United States Patent and Trademark Office 
(PTO), the amounts necessary to pay: (1) the difference between 
the percentage of basic pay contributed by the PTO and 
employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, 
and the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) 
of that title) of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title; and (2) the present value of 
the otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management, of post-retirement life 
insurance and post-retirement health benefits coverage for all 
PTO employees, shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the Employees Life Insurance 
Fund, and the Employees Health Benefits Fund, as appropriate, 
and shall be available for the authorized purposes of those 
accounts.

                         Science and Technology

                       Technology Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for 
Technology Office of Technology Policy, $6,000,000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND SERVICES

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, $399,869,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which not to exceed $1,300,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund''.

                     INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

    For necessary expenses of the Hollings Manufacturing 
Extension Partnership of the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, $106,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced 
Technology Program of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $80,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, $175,898,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That beginning in fiscal 
year 2007 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall include in the budget justification materials 
that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of the 
Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget of 
the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 10 United 
States Code) an estimate for each National Institute of 
Standards and Technology construction project having a total 
multiyear program cost of more than $5,000,000 and 
simultaneously the budget justification materials shall include 
an estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such project 
for each of the five subsequent fiscal years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; 
grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations 
for the purposes of conducting activities pursuant to 
cooperative agreements; and relocation of facilities, 
$2,763,222,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007, 
except for funds provided for cooperative enforcement which 
shall remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That 
fees and donations received by the National Ocean Service for 
the management of national marine sanctuaries may be retained 
and used for the salaries and expenses associated with those 
activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, 
That in addition, $3,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
the fund entitled ``Coastal Zone Management'' and in addition 
$67,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining 
to American Fisheries'': Provided further, That of the 
$2,833,222,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
heading $2,763,222,000 is appropriated from the General Fund 
and $70,000,000 is provided by transfer: Provided further, That 
no general administrative charge shall be applied against an 
assigned activity included in this Act or the report 
accompanying this Act: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration corporate services administrative support costs 
shall not exceed $179,036,000: Provided further, That payments 
of funds made available under this heading to the Department of 
Commerce Working Capital Fund including Department of Commerce 
General Counsel legal services shall not exceed $34,000,000: 
Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in the report accompanying 
this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided 
under this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the 
procedures set forth in section 605 of this Act: Provided 
further, That grants to States pursuant to sections 306 and 
306A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, 
shall not exceed $2,000,000, unless funds provided for 
``Coastal Zone Management Grants'' exceed funds provided in the 
previous fiscal year: Provided further, That if funds provided 
for ``Coastal Zone Management Grants'' exceed funds provided in 
the previous fiscal year, then no State shall receive more than 
5 percent or less than 1 percent of the additional funds: 
Provided further, That the personnel management demonstration 
project established at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 4703 may be expanded by 
3,500 full-time positions to include up to 6,925 full-time 
positions and may be extended indefinitely: Provided further, 
That the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration may engage in formal and informal education 
activities, including primary and secondary education, related 
to the agency's mission goals: Provided further, That, in 
accordance with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 
611 et seq.), within funds appropriated under this heading, 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for the cost 
of loans under section 211(e) of title II of Division C of 
Public Law 105-277, such loans to have terms of up to 30 years 
and to be available for use in any of the Bering Sea and 
Aleutian Islands fisheries.
    In addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits 
Plan, and for payments for the medical care of retired 
personnel and their dependents under the Dependents Medical 
Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may be necessary.

               PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital 
assets, including alteration and modification costs, of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
$1,124,278,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, 
except funds provided for construction of facilities which 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amounts provided for the National Polar-orbiting Operational 
Environmental Satellite System, funds shall only be made 
available on a dollar for dollar matching basis with funds 
provided for the same purpose by the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That except to the extent expressly 
prohibited by any other law, the Department of Defense may 
delegate procurement functions related to the National Polar-
orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System to 
officials of the Department of Commerce pursuant to section 
2311 of title 10, United States Code: Provided further, That 
any deviation from the amounts designated for specific 
activities in the report accompanying this Act, or any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in 
previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That beginning in 
fiscal year 2007 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall include in the budget justification 
materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of 
the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget 
of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 10 United 
States Code) an estimate for each National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition and 
construction program having a total multiyear program cost of 
more than $5,000,000 and an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such program for each of the five 
subsequent fiscal years: Provided further, That subject to 
amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts, the 
Secretary of Commerce is authorized to enter into a lease with 
The Regents of the University of California for land at the San 
Diego Campus in La Jolla for a term not less than 55 years: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated for the construction 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Pacific 
Regional Center are an additional increment in the incremental 
funding planned for the Center, and may be expended 
incrementally, through multi-year contracts for construction 
and related activities, provided that obligations under any 
such multi-year contract shall be subject to the availability 
of appropriations.

                    PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of 
Pacific salmon populations, $67,500,000.

                      COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed 
$3,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Operations, Research, 
and Facilities'' account to offset the costs of implementing 
such Act.

                   FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the costs of direct loans, $287,000, as authorized by 
the Merchant Marine Act of 1936: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990: Provided further, 
That these funds are only available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to 
exceed $5,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans, and not 
to exceed $59,000,000 for traditional direct loans, of which 
$19,000,000 may be used for direct loans to the United States 
menhaden fishery: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading may be used for direct loans for 
any new fishing vessel that will increase the harvesting 
capacity in any United States fishery.

                                 Other

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses necessary for the departmental management of 
the Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not 
to exceed $5,000 for official entertainment, $47,466,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed 11 full-time equivalents and 
$1,490,000 shall be expended for the legislative affairs 
function of the Department.

               UNITED STATES TRAVEL AND TOURISM PROMOTION

    For necessary expenses of the United States Travel and 
Tourism Promotion Program, as authorized by section 210 of 
Public Law 108-7, for programs promoting travel to the United 
States including grants, contracts, cooperative agreements and 
related costs, $4,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2007.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $22,758,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of 
Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities 
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to 
the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, and, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced 
payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such 
payments are in the public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for 
salaries and expenses shall be available for hire of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
Commerce in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by 
more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of 
the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset (including 
land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided for 
in this or any other Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: 
Provided further, That for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration this section shall provide for transfers among 
appropriations made only to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration and such appropriations may not be 
transferred and reprogrammed to other Department of Commerce 
bureaus and appropriation accounts.
    Sec. 204. Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under this title resulting from personnel actions taken 
in response to funding reductions included in this title or 
from actions taken for the care and protection of loan 
collateral or grant property shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: 
Provided, That the authority to transfer funds between 
appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included 
elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to 
carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of 
funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 205. Funds made available for salaries and 
administrative expenses to administer the Emergency Steel Loan 
Guarantee Program in section 211(b) of Public Law 108-199 shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That section 101(k) 
of the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Act of 1999 (Public Law 
106-51; 15 U.S.C. 1841 note) is amended by striking ``2005'' 
and inserting ``2007''.
    Sec. 206. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
no funds appropriated under this Act shall be used to register, 
issue, transfer, or enforce any trademark of the phrase ``Last 
Best Place''.
    Sec. 207. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the amounts made available elsewhere in this title to the 
``National Institute of Standards and Technology, Construction 
of Research Facilities'', $8,000,000 is for a cooperative 
agreement with the Medical University of South Carolina; 
$20,000,000 is for the National Formulation Science Laboratory 
at the University of Southern Mississippi; $20,000,000 is for 
the University of Mississippi Research Park; $5,000,000 is for 
the Alabama State University Science and Education Building; 
$8,000,000 is for Tuscaloosa, Alabama, revitalization; 
$20,000,000 is for the Biomedical Research Center at the 
University of Alabama at Birmingham; $3,000,000 is for the 
Institute for Security Technology Studies; $1,000,000 is for 
the Thayer School of Engineering; $12,000,000 is for the WVHTCF 
Research Facility; and $30,000,000 is for the University of 
Alabama for the design and construction of the Science and 
Engineering Center.
    Sec. 208. Of the amount available from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining 
to American Fisheries'', $7,000,000 shall be provided to the 
Alaska Fisheries Marketing Board, $5,000,000 shall be available 
to the Southern Shrimp Alliance for its ``Wild American Shrimp 
Marketing Program''.
    Sec. 209. Of the amounts made available under the heading 
``Procurement, Acquisition and Construction, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration'', $27,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration for the planning, design, and construction of 
Building 3203, for the planning and design of Buildings 3205 
and 3216, and for certain infrastructure improvements.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006''.

                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National 
Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act 
of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601-6671), hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to 
exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia, $5,564,000.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                  SCIENCE, AERONAUTICS AND EXPLORATION

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of science, aeronautics and exploration 
research and development activities, including research, 
development, operations, support and services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including repair, rehabilitation, 
revitalization, and modification of facilities, construction of 
new facilities and additions to existing facilities, facility 
planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
environmental compliance and restoration; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including 
operations, production, and services; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
$35,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission 
and administrative aircraft, $9,761,400,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007, of which amounts as 
determined by the Administrator for salaries and benefits; 
training, travel and awards; facility and related costs; 
information technology services; science, engineering, 
fabricating and testing services; and other administrative 
services may be transferred to ``Exploration Capabilities'' in 
accordance with section 312(b) of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Act of 1958, as amended by Public Law 106-377.

                        EXPLORATION CAPABILITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of exploration capabilities research and 
development activities, including research, development, 
operations, support and services; maintenance; construction of 
facilities including repair, rehabilitation, revitalization and 
modification of facilities, construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, facility planning and design, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized 
by law; environmental compliance and restoration; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including 
operations, production, and services; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
$35,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission 
and administrative aircraft, $6,663,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007, of which amounts as 
determined by the Administrator for salaries and benefits; 
training, travel and awards; facility and related costs; 
information technology services; science, engineering, 
fabricating and testing services; and other administrative 
services may be transferred to ``Science, Aeronautics and 
Exploration'' in accordance with section 312(b) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended by Public Law 
106-377.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$32,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'', or 
``Exploration Capabilities'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of 
obligations for construction of facilities or environmental 
compliance and restoration activities as authorized by law, 
such amount available for such activity shall remain available 
until expended. This provision does not apply to the amounts 
appropriated for institutional minor revitalization and 
construction of facilities, and institutional facility planning 
and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'', or 
``Exploration Capabilities'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall 
remain available until September 30, 2008.
    Funds for announced prizes otherwise authorized shall 
remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until the 
prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn. Funding shall not 
be made available for Centennial Challenges unless authorized.
    Funding made available under the headings ``Exploration 
Capabilities'' and ``Science, Aeronautics, and Exploration'' in 
this Act shall be governed by the terms and conditions 
specified in the statement of managers accompanying the 
conference report for this Act.
    The unexpired balances of prior appropriations to National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration for activities for which 
funds are provided under this Act may be transferred to the new 
account established for the appropriation that provides such 
activity under this Act. Balances so transferred may be merged 
with funds in the newly established account and thereafter may 
be accounted for as one fund under the same terms and 
conditions.

                      National Science Foundation

                    RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and 
the Act to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 
1880-1881); services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
maintenance and operation of aircraft and purchase of flight 
services for research support; acquisition of aircraft; and 
authorized travel; $4,387,520,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2007, of which not to exceed $425,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for Polar research and 
operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal 
agencies for operational and science support and logistical and 
other related activities for the United States Antarctic 
program: Provided, That from funds specified in the fiscal year 
2006 budget request for icebreaking services, such sums shall 
be available for the procurement of polar icebreaking services: 
Provided further, That the National Science Foundation shall 
reimburse the Coast Guard according to the existing memorandum 
of agreement: Provided further, That receipts for scientific 
support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation 
supported research facilities may be credited to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That to the extent that the 
amount appropriated is less than the total amount authorized to 
be appropriated for included program activities, all amounts, 
including floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing Act 
for those program activities or their subactivities shall be 
reduced proportionally: Provided further, That funds under this 
heading may be available for innovation inducement prizes.

          MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, 
facilities, and other such capital assets pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, including 
authorized travel, $193,350,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and 
engineering education and human resources programs and 
activities pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 
1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, authorized travel, and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $807,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, That to 
the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included 
program activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, 
specified in the authorizing Act for those program activities 
or their subactivities shall be reduced proportionally.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1861-1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $9,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and reimbursement 
of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services; $250,000,000: Provided, That contracts may be entered 
into under ``Salaries and Expenses'' in fiscal year 2006 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other 
services, to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, and the 
employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code) involved in carrying out section 4 
of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) 
and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), $4,000,000: 
Provided, That not more than $9,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$11,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.
    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations 
Act, 2006''.

            TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the 
Foreign Service not otherwise provided for, including 
employment, without regard to civil service and classification 
laws, of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000 
of this appropriation), as authorized by section 801 of the 
United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948; 
representation to certain international organizations in which 
the United States participates pursuant to treaties ratified 
pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or specific 
Acts of Congress; arms control, nonproliferation and 
disarmament activities as authorized; acquisition by exchange 
or purchase of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law; 
and for expenses of general administration, $3,680,019,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed 71 permanent positions and 
$9,804,000 shall be for the Bureau of Legislative Affairs: 
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this 
heading, not to exceed $4,000,000 may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds in the ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service'' appropriations account, to be available only 
for emergency evacuations and terrorism rewards: Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
not less than $334,000,000 shall be available only for public 
diplomacy international information programs: Provided further, 
That of the amount made available under this heading, not less 
than $2,000,000 shall be for a contribution to the Scholar 
Rescue Fund endowment: Provided further, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be 
available only for the operations of the Office on Right-Sizing 
the United States Government Overseas Presence: Provided 
further, That funds available under this heading may be 
available for a United States Government interagency task force 
to examine, coordinate and oversee United States participation 
in the United Nations headquarters renovation project: Provided 
further, That no funds may be obligated or expended for 
processing licenses for the export of satellites of United 
States origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
components) to the People's Republic of China unless, at least 
15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate are notified of such 
proposed action: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading are available, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1108(g), for the field examination of programs and activities 
in the United States funded from any account contained in this 
title.
    In addition, not to exceed $1,469,000 shall be derived from 
fees collected from other executive agencies for lease or use 
of facilities located at the International Center in accordance 
with section 4 of the International Center Act; in addition, as 
authorized by section 5 of such Act, $490,000, to be derived 
from the reserve authorized by that section, to be used for the 
purposes set out in that section; in addition, as authorized by 
section 810 of the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act, not to exceed $6,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, may be credited to this appropriation from fees 
or other payments received from English teaching, library, 
motion pictures, and publication programs and from fees from 
educational advising and counseling and exchange visitor 
programs; and, in addition, not to exceed $15,000, which shall 
be derived from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of 
Blair House facilities.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
$689,523,000, to remain available until expended.

                        CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, 
$58,895,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized: 
Provided, That section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 shall not 
apply to funds available under this heading.

        CENTRALIZED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION PROGRAM

    For expenses relating to the modernization of the 
information technology systems and networks of the Department 
of State, $69,368,000, to remain available until expended.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$30,029,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post 
inspections.

               EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, 
as authorized, $431,790,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, may be credited to this appropriation 
from fees or other payments received from or in connection with 
English teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, 
and exchange visitor programs as authorized.

                       REPRESENTATION ALLOWANCES

    For representation allowances as authorized, $8,281,000.

              PROTECTION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AND OFFICIALS

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide for extraordinary protective 
services, as authorized, $9,390,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2007.

            EMBASSY SECURITY, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292-303), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for buildings that are 
owned or directly leased by the Department of State, 
renovating, in addition to funds otherwise available, the Harry 
S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic Security 
Construction Program as authorized, $598,800,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized, of which not to exceed 
$25,000 may be used for domestic and overseas representation as 
authorized: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of furniture, 
furnishings, or generators for other departments and agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $910,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

           EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR SERVICE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to 
meet unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the ``Repatriation Loans 
Program Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   REPATRIATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For the cost of direct loans, $712,000, as authorized: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
out the direct loan program, $607,000, which may be transferred 
to and merged with funds in the ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' account.

              PAYMENT TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE IN TAIWAN

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations 
Act (Public Law 96-8), $19,751,000.

     PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund, as authorized by law, $131,700,000.

                      International Organizations

              CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet 
annual obligations of membership in international multilateral 
organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the 
advice and consent of the Senate, conventions or specific Acts 
of Congress, $1,166,212,000: Provided, That the Secretary of 
State shall, at the time of the submission of the President's 
budget to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, transmit to the Committees on Appropriations the 
most recent biennial budget prepared by the United Nations for 
the operations of the United Nations: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance (or in an emergency, 
as far in advance as is practicable) of any United Nations 
action to increase funding for any United Nations program 
without identifying an offsetting decrease elsewhere in the 
United Nations budget and cause the United Nations budget for 
the biennium 2006-2007 to exceed the revised United Nations 
budget level for the biennium 2004-2005 of $3,695,480,000: 
Provided further, That any payment of arrearages under this 
title shall be directed toward special activities that are 
mutually agreed upon by the United States and the respective 
international organization: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for a 
United States contribution to an international organization for 
the United States share of interest costs made known to the 
United States Government by such organization for loans 
incurred on or after October 1, 1984, through external 
borrowings.

        CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses 
of international peacekeeping activities directed to the 
maintenance or restoration of international peace and security, 
$1,035,500,000, of which 15 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2007: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available under this Act shall be obligated or expended for any 
new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission unless, at 
least 15 days in advance of voting for the new or expanded 
mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an 
emergency as far in advance as is practicable): (1) the 
Committees on Appropriations and other appropriate committees 
of the Congress are notified of the estimated cost and length 
of the mission, the national interest that will be served, and 
the planned exit strategy; (2) the Committees on Appropriations 
and other appropriate committees of the Congress are notified 
that the United Nations has taken appropriate measures to 
prevent United Nations employees, contractor personnel, and 
peacekeeping forces serving in any United Nations peacekeeping 
mission from trafficking in persons, exploiting victims of 
trafficking, or committing acts of illegal sexual exploitation, 
and to hold accountable individuals who engage in such acts 
while participating in the peacekeeping mission; and (3) a 
reprogramming of funds pursuant to section 605 of this Act is 
submitted, and the procedures therein followed, setting forth 
the source of funds that will be used to pay for the cost of 
the new or expanded mission: Provided further, That funds shall 
be available for peacekeeping expenses only upon a 
certification by the Secretary of State to the appropriate 
committees of the Congress that American manufacturers and 
suppliers are being given opportunities to provide equipment, 
services, and material for United Nations peacekeeping 
activities equal to those being given to foreign manufacturers 
and suppliers: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading are available to pay the United 
States share of the cost of court monitoring that is part of 
any United Nations peacekeeping mission.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or 
specific Acts of Congress, as follows:

 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and 
Mexico, and to comply with laws applicable to the United States 
Section, including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as 
follows:

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
$28,000,000.

                              CONSTRUCTION

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of 
authorized projects, $5,300,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized.

              AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties 
between the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and for 
the Border Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by 
Public Law 103-182, $10,039,000, of which not to exceed $9,000 
shall be available for representation expenses incurred by the 
International Joint Commission.

                  INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries 
commissions, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, 
$24,000,000: Provided, That the United States' share of such 
expenses may be advanced to the respective commissions pursuant 
to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                 Other

                     PAYMENT TO THE ASIA FOUNDATION

    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by the 
Asia Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $14,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized.

         CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN-WESTERN DIALOGUE TRUST FUND

    For a grant to the Center for Middle Eastern-Western 
Dialogue Trust Fund (22 U.S.C. 2078), $5,000,000 for operation 
of the Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue in Istanbul, 
Turkey.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Center for 
Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund, the total amount of 
the interest and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before 
September 30, 2006, to remain available until expended.

                 EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the 
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-
5205), all interest and earnings accruing to the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund on or before September 
30, 2006, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary or other compensation, or to enter into any contract 
providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in 
accordance with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative 
Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for Non-profit 
Organizations), including the restrictions on compensation for 
personal services.

                    ISRAELI ARAB SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship 
Program as authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), 
all interest and earnings accruing to the Israeli Arab 
Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 2006, to remain 
available until expended.

                            EAST-WEST CENTER

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying 
out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical 
Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the 
Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between East and 
West in the State of Hawaii, $19,240,000: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary, or enter into any contract providing for the payment 
thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                    NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy as authorized by the National Endowment 
for Democracy Act, $75,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS

    For expenses necessary to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, including the purchase, rent, 
construction, and improvement of facilities for radio and 
television transmission and reception and purchase, lease, and 
installation of necessary equipment for radio and television 
transmission and reception to Cuba, and to make and supervise 
grants for radio and television broadcasting to the Middle 
East, $641,450,000: Provided, That of the total amount in this 
heading, not to exceed $16,000 may be used for official 
receptions within the United States as authorized, not to 
exceed $35,000 may be used for representation abroad as 
authorized, and not to exceed $39,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty; and in addition, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $2,000,000 in receipts from 
advertising and revenue from business ventures, not to exceed 
$500,000 in receipts from cooperating international 
organizations, and not to exceed $1,000,000 in receipts from 
privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the 
International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available until 
expended for carrying out authorized purposes.

                   BROADCASTING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of 
facilities for radio and television transmission and reception, 
and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for radio 
and television transmission and reception as authorized, 
$10,893,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized.

       General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agency

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be 
available, except as otherwise provided, for allowances and 
differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United 
States Code; for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and 
for hire of passenger transportation pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
State in this title may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That not to exceed 5 
percent of any appropriation made available for the current 
fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of Governors in this 
title may be transferred between such appropriations, but no 
such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used by the Department of State or the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors to provide equipment, technical support, 
consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
    Sec. 404. (a) The Senior Policy Operating Group on 
Trafficking in Persons, established under section 406 of 
division B of Public Law 108-7 to coordinate agency activities 
regarding policies (including grants and grant policies) 
involving the international trafficking in persons, shall 
coordinate all such policies related to the activities of 
traffickers and victims of severe forms of trafficking.
    (b) None of the funds provided in this or any other Act 
shall be expended to perform functions that duplicate 
coordinating responsibilities of the Operating Group.
    (c) The Operating Group shall continue to report only to 
the authorities that appointed them pursuant to section 406 of 
division B of Public Law 108-7.
    Sec. 405. For the purposes of registration of birth, 
certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a 
United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the 
Secretary of State shall, upon request of the citizen, record 
the place of birth as Israel.
    Sec. 406. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'': $5,000,000 shall be made 
available for an endowment for the Center for Asian Democracy; 
$100,000 shall be made available for a grant to the Center for 
the Study of the Presidency for a public diplomacy initiative; 
$300,000 shall be made available for a grant to Operation Smile 
for a public diplomacy program; and $350,000 shall be made 
available for a grant to MiraMed for programs to combat human 
trafficking.
    Sec. 407. Funds appropriated under this title for the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors and the Department of State may 
be obligated and expended notwithstanding section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, section 313 of 
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 
1995 (Public Law 103-236), and section 504(a)(1) of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 408. (a) Funds provided in this title for the 
following accounts shall be made available for programs in the 
amounts contained in the respective tables included in the 
report accompanying this Act:
            ``Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs''.
            ``National Endowment for Democracy''.
            ``International Broadcasting Operations''.
            ``Broadcasting Capital Improvements''.
    (b) Any proposed increases or decreases to the amounts 
contained in such tables in the accompanying report shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures in section 605 
of this Act.
    (c) The Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations 15 days in advance of recommending the issuance 
of any license subject to Executive Order 13067.
    Sec. 409. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this 
title, not more than $1,035,500,000 shall be available for 
payment to the United Nations for assessed and other expenses 
of international peacekeeping activities.
    Sec. 410. Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2005'' and inserting ``October 1, 2006''.
    Sec. 411. None of the funds appropriated under this title 
may be made available to pay any contribution of the United 
States to the United Nations if the United Nations implements 
or imposes any taxation on any United States persons.
    Sec. 412. It is the sense of the Congress that the amount 
of any loan for the renovation of the United Nations 
headquarters building located in New York, New York, should not 
exceed $600,000,000: Provided, That if any loan exceeds 
$600,000,000, the Secretary of State shall notify the Congress 
of the current cost of the renovation and cost containment 
measures.
    Sec. 413. None of the funds made available by this title 
may be used for any United Nations undertaking when it is made 
known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that: (1) The United Nations undertaking is a 
peacekeeping mission; (2) such undertaking will involve United 
States Armed Forces under the command or operational control of 
a foreign national; and (3) the President's military advisors 
have not submitted to the President a recommendation that such 
involvement is in the national security interests of the United 
States and the President has not submitted to the Congress such 
a recommendation.
    Sec. 414. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available under this title shall be expended for any 
purpose for which appropriations are prohibited by section 609 
of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) The requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
section 609 of that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal 
year 2006.
    Sec. 415. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available under this title shall be expended for any 
purpose for which appropriations are prohibited by section 616 
of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) The requirements in subsections (b) and (c) of section 
616 of that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 
2006.
    Sec. 416. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), a 
project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States 
may not include office space or other accommodations for an 
employee of a Federal agency or department if the Secretary of 
State determines that such department or agency has not 
provided to the Department of State the full amount of funding 
required by subsection (e) of section 604 of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into 
law by section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained 
in appendix G of that Act; 113 Stat. 1501A-453), as amended by 
section 629 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, 
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005.
    (b) Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), a 
project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States 
may include office space or other accommodations for members of 
the Marine Corps.
    Sec. 417. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this title 
shall not be applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or 
otherwise made available by any subsequent Act unless such Act 
specifically so directs. Earmarks or minimum funding 
requirements contained in any other Act shall not be applicable 
to funds appropriated by this title.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and 
Related Agency Appropriations Act, 2006''.

                       TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                   Antitrust Modernization Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Antitrust Modernization 
Commission, as authorized by Public Law 107-273, $1,172,000, to 
remain available until expended.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, $499,000, as authorized by section 
1303 of Public Law 99-83.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,048,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to employ in excess of four full-time individuals 
under Schedule C of the Excepted Service exclusive of one 
special assistant for each Commissioner: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used 
to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with 
the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable 
days.

             Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of 
the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 
105-292), $3,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, 
$2,030,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive 
Commission on the People's Republic of China, as authorized, 
$1,900,000, including not more than $3,000 for the purpose of 
official representation, to remain available until September 
30, 2007.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964 (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); 
non-monetary awards to private citizens; and not to exceed 
$33,000,000 for payments to State and local enforcement 
agencies for services to the Commission pursuant to title VII 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, sections 6 and 14 of the Age 
Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
$331,228,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to 
make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $2,500 from available funds: Provided 
further, That the Commission may take no action to implement 
any workforce repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization 
until such time as the Committees on Appropriations have been 
notified of such proposals, in accordance with the 
reprogramming provisions of section 605 of this Act.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications 
Commission, as authorized by law, including uniforms and 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not 
to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; purchase and hire of motor vehicles; special counsel 
fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$289,771,000: Provided, That $288,771,000 of offsetting 
collections shall be assessed and collected pursuant to section 
9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, 
and shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2006 so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation 
estimated at $1,000,000: Provided further, That any offsetting 
collections received in excess of $288,771,000 in fiscal year 
2006 shall remain available until expended, but shall not be 
available for obligation until October 1, 2006: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds 
from the use of a competitive bidding system that may be 
retained and made available for obligation shall not exceed 
$85,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $211,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $300,000 shall be available for use to contract with a 
person or persons for collection services in accordance with 
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$116,000,000 of offsetting collections derived from fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 
18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be retained 
and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$23,000,000 in offsetting collections derived from fees 
sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing Sales 
Rule, promulgated under the Telephone Consumer Fraud and Abuse 
Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to 
this account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses 
in this appropriation: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2006, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $72,000,000: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available to the Federal 
Trade Commission may be used to enforce subsection (e) of 
section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1831t) or section 151(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 1831t note).

                       Legal Services Corporation

               PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out 
the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 
$330,803,000, of which $312,375,000 is for basic field programs 
and required independent audits; $2,539,000 is for the Office 
of Inspector General, of which such amounts as may be necessary 
may be used to conduct additional audits of recipients; 
$12,825,000 is for management and administration; $1,255,000 is 
for client self-help and information technology; and $1,809,000 
is for grants to offset losses due to census adjustments.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose 
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions 
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law 
105-119, and all funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms and 
conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be 
deemed to refer instead to 2005 and 2006, respectively, and 
except that section 501(a)(1) of Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 
1321-51, et seq.) shall not apply to the use of the $1,809,000 
to address loss of funding due to Census-based reallocations.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of Public Law 92-522, $2,920,000, of 
which $920,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2007.

           National Veterans Business Development Corporation

    For necessary expenses of the National Veterans Business 
Development Corporation as authorized under section 33(a) of 
the Small Business Act, $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
the rental of space (to include multiple year leases) in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, 
$888,117,000, to remain available until expended; of which not 
to exceed $10,000 may be used toward funding a permanent 
secretariat for the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions; and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by 
the Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory 
officials, members of their delegations, appropriate 
representatives and staff to exchange views concerning 
developments relating to securities matters, development and 
implementation of cooperation agreements concerning securities 
matters and provision of technical assistance for the 
development of foreign securities markets, such expenses to 
include necessary logistic and administrative expenses and the 
expenses of Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance 
at such consultations and meetings including: (1) such 
incidental expenses as meals taken in the course of such 
attendance; (2) any travel and transportation to or from such 
meetings; and (3) any other related lodging or subsistence: 
Provided, That fees and charges authorized by sections 6(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), and 
13(e), 14(g) and 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g), and 78ee), shall be credited to this 
account as offsetting collections: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $863,117,000 of such offsetting collections shall be 
available until expended for necessary expenses of this 
account: Provided further, That $25,000,000 shall be derived 
from prior year unobligated balances from funds previously 
appropriated to the Securities and Exchange Commission: 
Provided further, That the total amount appropriated under this 
heading from the general fund for fiscal year 2006 shall be 
reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as to result in 
a final total fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at not more than $0.

                     Small Business Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
Small Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 108-
447, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized 
by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $313,029,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge fees 
to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
Business Administration, and certain loan servicing activities: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to 
this account, to be available for carrying out these purposes 
without further appropriations: Provided further, That 
$89,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for performance 
in fiscal year 2006 or fiscal year 2007 as authorized: Provided 
further, That the Small Business Administration is authorized 
to award grants under the Women's Business Center 
Sustainability Pilot Program established by section 4(a) of 
Public Law 106-165 (15 U.S.C. 656(l)): Provided further, That, 
of the amounts provided for Women's Business Centers, not less 
than 41 percent shall be available to continue Women's Business 
Centers in sustainability status.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, $13,900,000.

                 SURETY BOND GUARANTEES REVOLVING FUND

    For additional capital for the Surety Bond Guarantees 
Revolving Fund, authorized by the Small Business Investment 
Act, as amended, $2,861,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That subject to section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2006 commitments to 
guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958, shall not exceed the levels established 
under 20(e)(1)(B)(ii) of the Small Business Act: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2006 commitments for general 
business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small 
Business Act, shall not exceed the levels established under 
20(e)(1)(B)(i) of the Small Business Act: Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2006 commitments to guarantee loans for 
debentures under section 303(b) of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958, shall not exceed $3,000,000,000: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2006 guarantees of 
trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small 
Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of 
$12,000,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $125,307,000, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries 
and Expenses: Provided, That, of the funds previously made 
available under Public Law 105-135, section 507(g), for the 
Delta Loan program, up to $500,000 may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for Salaries and Expenses.

                     DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

    From unobligated balances under this heading, in fiscal 
year 2006, not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to and 
merged with appropriations for Salaries and Expenses for 
indirect administrative expenses, of which $1,500,000 is for 
the Office of Inspector General of the Small Business 
Administration for audits and reviews of disaster loans and the 
disaster loan program and shall be transferred to and merged 
with appropriations for the Office of Inspector General.

        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by 
more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any 
transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                        State Justice Institute

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102-572), $3,500,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic 
and Security Review Commission, $3,000,000, including not more 
than $5,000 for the purpose of official representation, to 
remain available until September 30, 2007.

                    United States Institute of Peace

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of 
Peace as authorized in the United States Institute of Peace 
Act, $22,350,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

          United States Senate-China Interparliamentary Group

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the United States Senate-China 
Interparliamentary Group, as authorized under section 153 of 
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 276n; 
Public Law 108-99; 118 Stat. 448), $150,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise 
provided under existing law, or under existing Executive order 
issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application 
of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be held 
invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of each 
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to 
which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2006, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds that: (1) Creates new programs; (2) eliminates a 
program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel 
by any means for any project or activity for which funds have 
been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or 
employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices; (6) reorganizes, 
programs or activities; or (7) contracts out or privatizes any 
functions or activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses 
of Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
fiscal year 2006, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury 
of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in 
excess of $750,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) 
Augments existing programs, projects, or activities; (2) 
reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general savings, 
including savings from a reduction in personnel, which would 
result in a change in existing programs, activities, or 
projects as approved by Congress; unless the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 606. Hereafter, none of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used to implement, administer, or enforce any 
guidelines of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
covering harassment based on religion, when it is made known to 
the Federal entity or official to which such funds are made 
available that such guidelines do not differ in any respect 
from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission on 
October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 607. If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label 
bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription 
with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the 
United States that is not made in the United States, the person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made 
with funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the 
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described 
in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 608. The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, 
the Broadcasting Board of Governors, the National Science 
Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
the Federal Communications Commission, the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Small Business Administration shall 
provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
of the House of Representatives a quarterly accounting of the 
cumulative balances of any unobligated funds that were received 
by such agency during any previous fiscal year.
    Sec. 609. Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer 
funds between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to 
carry out this section is provided in addition to authorities 
included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of 
funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 610. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco 
products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign 
country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally 
to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.
    Sec.  611. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this 
Act or any other provision of law may be used for--
            (1) the implementation of any tax or fee in 
        connection with the implementation of subsection 922(t) 
        of title 18, United States Code; and
            (2) any system to implement subsection 922(t) of 
        title 18, United States Code, that does not require and 
        result in the destruction of any identifying 
        information submitted by or on behalf of any person who 
        has been determined not to be prohibited from 
        possessing or receiving a firearm no more than 24 hours 
        after the system advises a Federal firearms licensee 
        that possession or receipt of a firearm by the 
        prospective transferee would not violate subsection (g) 
        or (n) of section 922 of title 18, United States Code, 
        or State law.
    Sec. 612. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
amounts deposited or available in the Fund established under 42 
U.S.C. 10601 in any fiscal year in excess of $625,000,000 shall 
not be available for obligation until the following fiscal 
year.
    Sec. 613. For additional amounts under the heading ``Small 
Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses'', $1,000,000 
shall be available for the Adelante Development Center, Inc., 
NM; $850,000 shall be available for the Alabama Department of 
Archives and History, Montgomery, AL; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Alabama Humanities Foundation for a Statewide 
Initiative; $1,500,000 shall be available for Alabama State 
Docks Economic Development; $200,000 shall be available for the 
Alaska Small Business Development Center; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the Alcorn State University Judicial Threat 
Analysis Center; $775,000 shall be available for Ben Franklin 
Technology Partners Translational Action Research Boards, 
Philadelphia, PA; $1,000,000 shall be available for the Bring 
Back Broad Street Initiative, Mobile, AL; $450,000 shall be 
available for the City of Guin, AL, Industrial Development 
Initiative; $250,000 shall be available for the City of 
Monroeville, AL, Community Enrichment Project; $300,000 shall 
be available for the City of Oneonta, AL, for industrial 
development; $500,000 shall be available for the City of 
Richland Revitalization Project; $100,000 shall be available 
for community development in Randolph County, AL; $275,000 
shall be available for the Community Development Project, 
Huntsville, AL; $500,000 shall be available for economic 
development in Lamar County, AL; $100,000 shall be available 
for the Great Lakes Business Growth and Development Center at 
Lorain County Community College; $200,000 shall be available 
for the Greenville Waterfront Industrial Enhancement Project; 
$50,000 shall be available for the Houston Community College 
Multi-Cultural Business Center; $75,000 shall be available for 
the Idaho Virtual Incubator at Lewis-Clark State College; 
$500,000 shall be available for Industrial Infrastructure in 
Hartselle, AL; $5,000,000 shall be available for the Industrial 
Outreach Service at Mississippi State University; $450,000 
shall be available for infrastructure development in Chambers 
County, AL; $200,000 shall be available for the Investnet/
Technology Venture Center partnership for Alaska and Montana; 
$200,000 shall be available for the Knoxville College Small 
Business Incubator Program; $350,000 shall be available for the 
LeFleur Lakes Flood Control/Pearl River Watershed project; 
$750,000 shall be available for the Manufacturing Technology 
Initiative at Mississippi State University; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Mississippi Children's Museum; $1,000,000 
shall be available for the Mississippi Film Enterprise Zone; 
$1,250,000 shall be available for the Mississippi Technology 
Alliance Economic Development Plan; $500,000 shall be available 
for the Mitchell Memorial Library for the digitization of 
special collections; $500,000 shall be available for the 
Montgomery, AL, Downtown Revitalization Project; $650,000 shall 
be available for the New Product Development and 
Commercialization Center for Rural Manufacturers; $2,100,000 
shall be available for the Oak Ridge National Laboratory for 
the Southeastern fiber optic project (Lambda Rail); $500,000 
shall be available for the Old Fort McClellan Economic 
Development Initiative, Anniston, AL; $75,000 shall be 
available for the Pro-Tech Program at the College of Southern 
Idaho; $500,000 shall be available for the Shelby County, AL, 
Environmental Education Center; $2,000,000 shall be available 
for Small Business Development Centers in Mississippi; $100,000 
shall be available for the South Carolina International Center 
for Automotive Research Park Innovation Center; $250,000 shall 
be available for the Technology Venture Center, MT; $25,000 
shall be available for the Town of Millry, AL, for community 
development; $1,000,000 shall be available for the Toxin Alert 
Development Project at the University of Southern Mississippi; 
$500,000 shall be available for the Troy University Center for 
International Business and Economic Development; $900,000 shall 
be available for the Tuck School of Business/MBDA Partnership; 
$150,000 shall be available for the University of Alabama 
Community Development project; $350,000 shall be available for 
the University of West Alabama Regional Center for Community 
and Economic Development; $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
Women's Entrepreneurship Initiative at the Mississippi 
University for Women; $500,000 shall be available for the 
Montana Department of Administration for spatial data to enable 
economic development; $500,000 shall be available for the City 
of Fort Wayne, Indiana for the Institute for Orthopedic 
Biomaterials Research; $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
New Mexico State University Arrowhead Center; $1,000,000 shall 
be available for the New Mexico Community Development Loan 
Fund/WESSTCorp. Cooperative; $1,500,000 shall be available for 
the Inland Northwest Regional GigaPop Network Connectivity 
project; $300,000 shall be available for the Brooklyn, NY 
Chamber of Commerce for the Brooklyn Goes Global program; 
$500,000 shall be available for the Institute for Technology 
and Business Development at Central Connecticut State 
University; $500,000 shall be available for the Iowa Department 
of Economic Development for the Entrepreneurial Venture 
Assistance Project; $400,000 shall be available for the New 
Ventures Center in Davenport in Iowa; $400,000 shall be 
available for the Pappajohn Higher Education Center in Des 
Moines, Iowa; $250,000 shall be available for the University of 
Vermont Small Enterprise Research Initiative; $200,000 shall be 
available for the Genesis of Innovation in Rapid City, South 
Dakota; $500,000 shall be available for the Wisconsin Security 
Research Consortium, a collaboration between the University of 
Wisconsin System and the Wisconsin Technology Council; $500,000 
shall be available for the Rowan University Technology Center 
and Business Incubator; $1,500,000 shall be available for the 
Vermont Center for Emerging Technologies; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Vermont Employee Ownership Center; $820,000 
shall be available for the Central Michigan University Center 
for Applied Research and Technology; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Nanotechnology Economic Development Program 
at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock; $1,100,000 shall 
be available for the University of Arkansas' Research and 
Technology Park; $600,000 shall be available for the Maryland 
Technology Development Corporation for the Minority R&D 
Initiative; $1,000,000 shall be available for the University of 
West Florida's Statewide Small Business Development Center 
Network; $200,000 shall be available for the Nevada's 
Commission on Economic Development; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the Clark County Department of Aviation, Las 
Vegas, Nevada to study and operate the international air trade 
show; $250,000 shall be available for the Corona-Elmhurst 
Center for Economic Development, New York; $180,000 shall be 
available for the Sephardic Angel Fund, New York City; $500,000 
shall be available for the Detroit Economic Growth Business 
Attraction Program; $250,000 shall be available for the Oregon 
Department of Consumer and Business Services' One-Stop 
Permitting Portal; $250,000 shall be available for the Fossil 
Bed Park and Ancient Lands Field House; $100,000 shall be for a 
grant to Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation; $100,000 shall be 
for a grant to Belle Grove Plantation; $250,000 shall be for a 
grant to Shenandoah University for a facility; $100,000 shall 
be for a grant to Winchester-Frederick Convention and Visitor 
Bureau; $2,000,000 shall be for a grant to Virginia Community 
College System for a web portal; $200,000 shall be for a grant 
to Americans at War; $500,000 shall be for a grant to Warren 
County, Virginia, for a community enhancement project; 
$2,000,000 shall be available for the United States-China 
Economic and Security Review Commission for projects to study 
Chinese policies and practices and their impacts on American 
interests, the American economy, and small businesses; $200,000 
shall be for a grant to the Myrtle Beach International Trade 
and Convention Center; $575,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Innovation and Outreach Center at the University of 
Mississippi; $500,000 shall be for a grant to Competetive 
Manufacturing through Innovation Management at the University 
of Wisconsin Oshkosh; $200,000 shall be for a grant to Business 
and Industrial Incubator in Cushing, Oklahoma; $500,000 shall 
be for a grant to Patrick Henry Community College for a 
workforce development program; $500,000 shall be for a grant to 
Danville Community College for a workforce development program; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to Advanced and Applied Polymer 
Processing Institute; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Industrial Development Authority of Halifax, VA; $1,000,000 
shall be for a grant to the University of Illinois for the 
Information Trust Initiative; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant 
to Aurora, IL, for construction and other activities related to 
community development; $200,000 shall be for a grant to 
Carnegie Mellon University for a Community-Based Demonstration 
Project; $500,000 shall be for a grant to REI Rural Business 
and Resource Center in Seminole, Oklahoma; $1,000,000 shall be 
for a grant to Appalachian State University; $1,000,000 shall 
be for a grant to Western Carolina University for a computer 
engineering program; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
International Small Business and Trade Institute; $500,000 
shall be for a grant to the Illinois Institute for Technology 
to examine and assess advancements in biotechnologies; 
$3,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Southern and Eastern 
Kentucky Tourism Development Association; $2,500,000 shall be 
for a grant to the Southern and Eastern Kentucky Economic 
Development Corporation; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the 
National Center for Community Renewal; $250,000 shall be for a 
grant to Advanced Business Technology Incubator at College of 
the Canyons; $250,000 shall be for a grant to the Applied 
Competitive Technologies Program of the California Community 
Colleges; $250,000 shall be for a grant to Adirondack Champlain 
Fiber Network; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Amoskeag 
Business Incubator; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Montana World Trade Center; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
the Fairplex Trade and Conference Center; $220,000 shall be for 
a grant to Virtual Business Incubator in Southeast 
Pennsylvania; $250,000 shall be for a grant to the Rochester 
Tooling and Machining Association; $600,000 shall be for a 
grant to Wittenberg University to expand business education; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to Experience Works to expand 
opportunities for older workers; $1,000,000 shall be for a 
grant to Innovation Center in Peoria, Illinois; $1,250,000 
shall be for a grant to North Iowa Area Community College 
business incubator; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
University of Redlands for development of a center to assist 
small business; $500,000 shall be for a grant to McHenry County 
Economic Development Corporation; $300,000 shall be for a grant 
to Rockford Area Ventures in Rockford, Illinois; $1,100,000 
shall be for a grant to Ohio Ready to Work program; $530,000 
shall be for a grant to Michigan State University for the 
Institute for Trade in the Americas; $500,000 shall be for a 
grant to Bridgeport Regional Business Council for an economic 
integration initiative; $100,000 shall be for a grant to 
Cedarbridge Development Corporation for a redevelopment 
initiative; $100,000 shall be for a grant to the Heart of 
Florida Regional Coalition; $150,000 shall be for a grant to 
Syracuse, NY, for a small business community support program; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to the Connect the Valley 
initiative; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the Chattanooga 
Enterprise Center for a demonstration project; $150,000 shall 
be available for a grant to St. Jerome Church for their 
community center project and programs in the Bronx, New York; 
$50,000 shall be available for a grant to establish the Tito 
Puente Legacy Project at Hostos Community College in New York; 
$150,000 shall be available for a grant to the Bronx Council on 
the Arts for its Arts Cultural Corridor Project to promote 
local arts initiatives; $50,000 shall be available for a grant 
to the South Bronx Action Group to provide housing related 
services to the community; $100,000 shall be available for a 
grant to Pro Co Technology, Inc. for their programs in the 
Bronx, New York; $150,000 shall be available for a grant to 
Bronx Shepherds for community programs; $200,000 shall be 
available for a grant to HOGAR, Inc. in the Bronx, New York; 
$50,000 shall be available for a grant to the Promesa 
Foundation to provide financial assistance to New York area 
families under a youth sports and recreational initiative; 
$100,000 shall be available for a grant to Promesa Enterprises 
in New York for infrastructure program support; $100,000 shall 
be available for a grant to Presbyterian Senior Services for 
capital costs for their Grandparent Family Apartments project 
in the Bronx, New York; $50,000 shall be available for a grant 
to World Vision's Bronx Storehouse for services in the 
community; $50,000 shall be available for a grant to the Bronx 
River Alliance for its services in the Bronx, New York; 
$600,000 shall be available to the Downtown Huntsville Small 
Business Enhancement Initiative; $150,000 shall be available 
for the Rhode Island College for the Project FLIP (Financial 
and Functional Literacy Incentive Program); $750,000 shall be 
available for the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence, 
Rhode Island; $100,000 shall be available for the Newport 
County Chamber of Commerce for the Aquidneck Island Corporate 
Park Capital Program; $700,000 shall be available for the 
American Cities Foundation (ACF) Economic Development 
Initiative; $300,000 shall be available for CAP Services in 
Stevens Point, WI; $500,000 shall be available for the 
Northwest Regional Planning Commission; $400,000 shall be 
available for the Wisconsin Procurement Institute; $250,000 
shall be for the JARI Workforce Development Program; $250,000 
shall be for the JARI Small Business Technology Center; 
$400,000 shall be for the Economic Growth Connection 
Procurement Assistance Program; $300,000 shall be for the 
Franklin County, Massachusetts Community Development 
Corporation for a rural economic growth program; $1,870,000 
shall be available for a grant to the MountainMade Foundation 
to fulfill its charter purposes and to continue the initiative 
developed by the NTTC for outreach and promotion, business and 
sites development, the education of artists and craftspeople, 
and to promote small businesses, artisans and their products 
through market development, advertisement, commercial sale and 
other promotional means; $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
INNOVA small business incubator; $30,000 shall be available for 
the Town of Hambleton for upgrades and renovations to the town 
hall; $100,000 shall be available for the Parsons 
Revitalization Organization for planning purposes; $100,000 
shall be available for Rowlesburg Revitalization Committee for 
neighborhood revitalization; $500,000 shall be available for 
the Institute for Entrepreneurship, Small Business Development 
and Global Logistics at California State University at 
Dominguez Hills, California; $300,000 shall be available for 
Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation in Brooklyn, New York 
to support and expand the Initiative for a Competitive 
Brooklyn; and $200,000 shall be available for the Local 
Development Corporation of East New York for the Brooklyn 
Enterprise Center.
    Sec.  614. None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate 
against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of students 
who participate in programs for which financial assistance is 
provided from those funds, or of the parents or legal guardians 
of such students.
    Sec. 615. All disaster loans issued in Alaska or North 
Dakota shall be administered by the Small Business 
Administration and shall not be sold during fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 616. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 617. The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, 
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Small Business 
Administration shall, not later than two months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, certify that telecommuting 
opportunities have increased over levels certified to the 
Committees on Appropriations for fiscal year 2005: Provided, 
That, of the total amounts appropriated to the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the Small Business Administration, $5,000,000 
shall be available to each only upon such certification: 
Provided further, That each Department or agency shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
status of telecommuting programs, including the number and 
percentage of Federal employees eligible for, and participating 
in, such programs: Provided further, That each Department or 
agency shall maintain a ``Telework Coordinator'' to be 
responsible for overseeing the implementation and operations of 
telecommuting programs, and serve as a point of contact on such 
programs for the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 618. With the consent of the President, the Secretary 
of Commerce shall represent the United States Government in 
negotiating and monitoring international agreements regarding 
fisheries, marine mammals, or sea turtles: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Commerce shall be responsible for the development 
and interdepartmental coordination of the policies of the 
United States with respect to the international negotiations 
and agreements referred to in this section.
    Sec. 619. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
and the National Science Foundation shall, not later than two 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, certify 
that telecommuting opportunities are made available to 100 
percent of the eligible workforce: Provided, That, of the total 
amounts appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration and the National Science Foundation, $5,000,000 
shall be available to each agency only upon such certification: 
Provided further, That both agencies shall provide quarterly 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations on the status of 
telecommuting programs, including the number of Federal 
employees eligible for, and participating in, such programs: 
Provided further, That both agencies shall designate a 
``Telework Coordinator'' to be responsible for overseeing the 
implementation and operations of telecommuting programs, and 
serve as a point of contact on such programs for the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    Sec. 620. Any funds provided in this Act used to implement 
E-Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set 
forth in section 605 of this Act.
    Sec. 621. (a) Tracing studies conducted by the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are released without 
adequate disclaimers regarding the limitations of the data.
    (b) The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
shall include in all such data releases, language similar to 
the following that would make clear that trace data cannot be 
used to draw broad conclusions about firearms-related crime:
            (1) Firearm traces are designed to assist law 
        enforcement authorities in conducting investigations by 
        tracking the sale and possession of specific firearms. 
        Law enforcement agencies may request firearms traces 
        for any reason, and those reasons are not necessarily 
        reported to the Federal Government. Not all firearms 
        used in crime are traced and not all firearms traced 
        are used in crime.
            (2) Firearms selected for tracing are not chosen 
        for purposes of determining which types, makes or 
        models of firearms are used for illicit purposes. The 
        firearms selected do not constitute a random sample and 
        should not be considered representative of the larger 
        universe of all firearms used by criminals, or any 
        subset of that universe. Firearms are normally traced 
        to the first retail seller, and sources reported for 
        firearms traced do not necessarily represent the 
        sources or methods by which firearms in general are 
        acquired for use in crime.
    Sec. 622. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, 
or change its rules or regulations for universal service 
support payments to implement the February 27, 2004 
recommendations of the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal 
Service regarding single connection or primary line 
restrictions on universal service support payments.
    Sec. 623. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used to issue patents on claims 
directed to or encompassing a human organism.
    Sec. 624. None of the funds made available in this Act 
shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture by any official or contract employee of the 
United States Government.
    Sec. 625. Of the amounts made available in this Act, 
$393,616,321 from ``Department of State''; $27,938,072 from 
``Department of Justice''; $14,107,754 from ``Department of 
Commerce''; $426,314 from ``United States Trade 
Representative''; $575,116 from ``Broadcasting Board of 
Governors''; $291,855 from ``National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration''; and $79,754 from ``National Science 
Foundation'' shall be available for the purposes of 
implementing the Capital Security Cost Sharing program.
    Sec. 626. None of the funds made available to NASA in this 
Act may be used for voluntary separation incentive payments as 
provided for in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United 
States Code, unless the Administrator of NASA has first 
certified to Congress that such payments would not result in 
the loss of skills related to the safety of the Space Shuttle 
or the International Space Station or to the conduct of 
independent safety oversight in the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration.
    Sec. 627. Notwithstanding 40 U.S.C. 524, 571, and 572, the 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration may sell the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration-owned property on the Camp Parks Military 
Reservation, Alameda County, California.
    Sec.  628. (a) In General.--The President of the United 
States through his designee the Administrator of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration and in consultation with 
other Federal agencies shall develop a national aeronautics 
policy to guide the aeronautics programs of the Administration 
through 2020.
    (b) Content.--At a minimum, the national aeronautics policy 
shall describe--
            (1) the priority areas of research for aeronautics 
        through fiscal year 2011;
            (2) the basis on which and the process by which 
        priorities for ensuing fiscal years will be selected;
            (3) the facilities and personnel needed to carry 
        out the program through fiscal year 2011; and
            (4) the budget assumptions on which the national 
        aeronautics policy is based.
    (c) Considerations.--In developing the national aeronautics 
policy, the President shall consider the following questions, 
which shall be discussed in the policy statement--
            (1) the extent to which NASA should focus on long-
        term, high-risk research or more incremental research 
        or both and the expected impact on the U.S. aircraft 
        and airline industries of those decisions;
            (2) the extent to which NASA should address 
        military and commercial needs;
            (3) how NASA will coordinate its aeronautics 
        program with other Federal agencies; and
            (4) the extent to which NASA will fund university 
        research and the expected impact of that funding on the 
        supply of U.S. workers for the aeronautics industry.
    (d) Consultation.--In developing the national aeronautics 
policy, the Administrator shall consult widely with academic 
and industry experts and with other Federal agencies. The 
Administrator may enter into an arrangement with the National 
Academy of Sciences to help develop the national aeronautics 
policy.
    (e) Schedule.--The Administrator shall submit the new 
national aeronautics policy to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations and to the House Committee on Science and the 
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
within one year of enactment of this Act. The Administrator 
shall make available to the Congress any study done by a non-
governmental entity that was used in the development of the 
national aeronautics policy.
    Sec. 629. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
treaty, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act or any other Act may be expended or 
obligated by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate 
an officer or employee of the United States in connection with 
requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms 
listed in Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of 
Federal Regulations (International Trafficking in Arms 
Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 1, 2005) 
with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) of 
this section are met by the exporting party for such articles.
    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export 
license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any 
        Shipper's Export Declaration or notification letter 
        required by law, or from being otherwise eligible under 
        the laws of the United States to possess, ship, 
        transport, or export the articles enumerated in 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license 
        of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components 
                and parts for such firearms, other than for end 
                use by the Federal Government, or a Provincial 
                or Municipal Government of Canada, or
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) 
                or complete breech mechanisms for any firearm 
                listed in Category I, other than for end use by 
                the Federal Government, or a Provincial or 
                Municipal Government of Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to 
                another foreign destination.
    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors 
of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
temporary export without a license of any unclassified articles 
specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in Canada or 
return to the United States, or temporary import of Canadian-
origin items from Canada for end use in the United States or 
return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) The President may require export licenses under this 
section on a temporary basis if the President determines, upon 
publication first in the Federal Register, that the Government 
of Canada has implemented or maintained inadequate import 
controls for the articles specified in subsection (a), such 
that a significant diversion of such articles has and continues 
to take place for use in international terrorism or in the 
escalation of a conflict in another nation. The President shall 
terminate the requirements of a license when reasons for the 
temporary requirements have ceased.
    Sec. 630. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other Act 
shall obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay 
administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the United States to deny any application submitted 
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 
27 CFR Sec. 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import United 
States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or 
ammunition.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade 
agreement the text of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United 
        States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United 
        States-Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United 
        States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
    Sec. 632. Of the funds appropriated to the Federal Trade 
Commission by this Act, not less than $1,000,000 shall be used 
by the Commission to conduct an immediate investigation into 
nationwide gasoline prices in the aftermath of Hurricane 
Katrina: Provided, That the investigation shall include (1) any 
evidence of price-gouging by companies with total United States 
wholesale sales of gasoline and petroleum distillates for 
calendar 2004 in excess of $500,000,000 and by any retail 
distributor of gasoline and petroleum distillates against which 
multiple formal complaints (that identify the location of a 
particular retail distributor and provide contact information 
for the complainant) of price-gouging were filed in August or 
September, 2005, with a Federal or State consumer protection 
agency, (2) a comparison of, and an explanation of the reasons 
for changes in, profit levels of such companies during the 12-
month period ending on August 31, 2005, and their profit levels 
for the month of September, 2005, including information for 
particular companies on a basis that does not permit the 
identification of any company to which the information relates, 
(3) a summary of tax expenditures (as defined in section 3(3) 
of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 
(2 U.S.C. 622(3)) for such companies, (4) the effects of 
increased gasoline prices and gasoline price-gouging on 
economic activity in the United States, and (5) the overall 
cost of increased gasoline prices and gasoline price-gouging to 
the economy, including the impact on consumers' purchasing 
power in both declared State and National disaster areas and 
elsewhere: Provided further, That, in conducting its 
investigation, the Commission shall treat as evidence of price-
gouging any finding that the average price of gasoline 
available for sale to the public in September, 2005, or 
thereafter in a market area located in an area designated as a 
State or National disaster area because of Hurricane Katrina, 
or in any other area where price-gouging complaints have been 
filed because of Hurricane Katrina with a Federal or State 
consumer protection agency, exceeded the average price of such 
gasoline in that area for the month of August, 2005, unless the 
Commission finds substantial evidence that the increase is 
substantially attributable to additional costs in connection 
with the production, transportation, delivery, and sale of 
gasoline in that area or to national or international market 
trends: Provided further, That in any areas of markets in which 
the Commission determines price increases are due to factors 
other than the additional costs, it shall also notify the 
appropriate State agency of its findings: Provided further, 
That the Commission shall provide information on the progress 
of the investigation to the Senate and House Appropriations 
Committees, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation, and the House of Representatives Committee on 
Energy and Commerce every 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, shall provide those Committees a written interim 
report 90 days after such date, and shall transmit a final 
report to those Committees, together with its findings and 
recommendations, no later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the Commission 
shall transmit recommendations, based on its findings, to the 
Congress for any legislation necessary to protect consumers 
from gasoline price-gouging in both State and National disaster 
areas and elsewhere: Provided further, That chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, does not apply to the collection of 
information for the investigation required by this section: 
Provided further, That if, during the investigation, the 
Commission obtains evidence that a person may have violated a 
criminal law, the Commission may transmit that evidence to 
appropriate Federal or State authorities: Provided further, 
That nothing in this section affects any other authority of the 
Commission to disclose information.
    Sec. 633. Section 302 of the Universal Service 
Antideficiency Temporary Suspension Act is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2005,'' each place it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2006,''.
    Sec. 634. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
than 50 employees of agencies or departments of the United 
States Government who are stationed in the United States, at 
any single international conference occurring outside the 
United States, unless the Secretary of State determines that 
such attendance is in the national interest: Provided, That for 
purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference attended by representatives of the 
United States Government and representatives of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    Sec. 635. (a) Modification of Responsibilities.--
Notwithstanding any provision of section 1238 of the Floyd D. 
Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 
(22 U.S.C. 7002), or any other provision of law, the United 
States-China Economic and Security Review Commission 
established by subsection (b) of that section shall investigate 
and report exclusively on each of the following areas:
            (1) Proliferation practices.--The role of the 
        People's Republic of China in the proliferation of 
        weapons of mass destruction and other weapons 
        (including dual use technologies), including actions 
        the United States might take to encourage the People's 
        Republic of China to cease such practices.
            (2) Economic transfers.--The qualitative and 
        quantitative nature of the transfer of United States 
        production activities to the People's Republic of 
        China, including the relocation of high technology, 
        manufacturing, and research and development facilities, 
        the impact of such transfers on United States national 
        security, the adequacy of United States export control 
        laws, and the effect of such transfers on United States 
        economic security and employment.
            (3) Energy.--The effect of the large and growing 
        economy of the People's Republic of China on world 
        energy supplies and the role the United States can play 
        (including through joint research and development 
        efforts and technological assistance) in influencing 
        the energy policy of the People's Republic of China.
            (4) Access to united states capital markets.--The 
        extent of access to and use of United States capital 
        markets by the People's Republic of China, including 
        whether or not existing disclosure and transparency 
        rules are adequate to identify People's Republic of 
        China companies engaged in harmful activities.
            (5) Regional economic and security impacts.--The 
        triangular economic and security relationship among the 
        United States, Taipei, and the People's Republic of 
        China (including the military modernization and force 
        deployments of the People's Republic of China aimed at 
        Taipei), the national budget of the People's Republic 
        of China, and the fiscal strength of the People's 
        Republic of China in relation to internal instability 
        in the People's Republic of China and the likelihood of 
        the externalization of problems arising from such 
        internal instability.
            (6) United states-china bilateral programs.--
        Science and technology programs, the degree of non-
        compliance by the People's Republic of China with 
        agreements between the United States and the People's 
        Republic of China on prison labor imports and 
        intellectual property rights, and United States 
        enforcement policies with respect to such agreements.
            (7) World trade organization compliance.--The 
        compliance of the People's Republic of China with its 
        accession agreement to the World Trade Organization 
        (WTO).
            (8) Freedom of expression.--The implications of 
        restrictions on speech and access to information in the 
        People's Republic of China for its relations with the 
        United States in the areas of economic and security 
        policy.
    (b) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act.--
Subsection (g) of section 1238 of the Floyd D. Spence National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(g) Applicability of FACA.--The provisions of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the 
activities of the Commission.''.
    Sec. 636. Section 635 of division B of Public Law 108-447 
is amended by striking ``balance'' and inserting ``and 
unexpended balances''.
    Sec. 637. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
be used to pay expenses for any United States delegation to any 
specialized agency, body, or commission of the United Nations 
if such commission is chaired or presided over by a country, 
the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, 
for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of the Export Administration 
Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), has provided support 
for acts of international terrorism.

                              (RESCISSION)

    Sec. 638. (a) There is hereby rescinded an amount equal to 
0.28 percent of the budget authority provided for in fiscal 
year 2006 for any discretionary account in this Act.
    (b) Any rescission made by subsection (a) shall be applied 
proportionately--
            (1) to each discretionary account and each item of 
        budget authority described in subsection (a); and
            (2) within each such account and item, to each 
        program, project, and activity (with programs, 
        projects, and activities as delineated in the 
        appropriation Act or accompanying reports for the 
        relevant fiscal year covering such account or item, or 
        for accounts and items not included in appropriation 
        Acts, as delineated in the most recently submitted 
        President's budget).

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$2,500,000 are rescinded.

                            Legal Activities

                         ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$102,000,000 are rescinded.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$25,000,000 are rescinded.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$110,500,000 are rescinded.

                  COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$86,500,000 are rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available in accounts under 
this heading from prior year appropriations, $25,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$25,300,000 are rescinded.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$12,000,000 are rescinded.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$920,000 are rescinded.

                     Small Business Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$3,000,000 are rescinded.

                     BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                              (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$4,000,000 are rescinded.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Science, State, Justice, 
Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006''.
    And the Senate agree to the same.
    That the Senate recede from its amendment to the title of 
the bill.
                                   Frank R. Wolf,
                                   Charles H. Taylor,
                                   Mark Steven Kirk,
                                   Dave Weldon,
                                   Virgil Goode, Jr.,
                                   Ray LaHood,
                                   John Abney Culberson,
                                   Rodney Alexander,
                                   Jerry Lewis,
                                   Alan B. Mollohan,
                                   Jose E. Serrano,
                                   Bud Cramer,
                                   Patrick J. Kennedy,
                                   Chaka Fattah,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Richard C. Shelby,
                                   Judd Gregg,
                                   Ted Stevens,
                                   Pete V. Domenici,
                                   Mitch McConnell,
                                   Kay Bailey Hutchison,
                                   Sam Brownback,
                                   Kit Bond,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                   Barbara Mikulski,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Patrick Leahy,
                                   Herb Kohl,
                                   Patty Murray,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.

       JOINT EXPLANATORY STATEMENT OF THE COMMITTEE OF CONFERENCE

      The committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses on the amendments of the Senate to the bill 
(H.R. 2862), ``making appropriations for Science, the 
Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006, and for 
other purposes'', submits the following joint statement to the 
House and the Senate in explanation of the effect of the action 
agreed upon by the conferees and recommended in the 
accompanying conference report.
      The legislative intent in the House and Senate versions 
in H.R. 2862 is set forth in the accompanying House report (H. 
Rpt. 109-118) and the accompanying Senate reports (S. Rpt. 109-
88 and S. Rpt. 109-96).
      The Senate amended the House bill with two amendments. 
The Senate amendment to the text deleted the entire House bill 
after the enacting clause and inserted the Senate bill. The 
conference agreement includes a revised bill.
      The Senate amended the title of the House bill. The 
conference agreement adopts the title of the bill as proposed 
by the House.

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $124,456,000 for 
General Administration, Salaries and Expenses, as proposed by 
the House, instead of $116,936,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $31,250,000 for the 
Office of Intelligence Policy and Review. This is an increase 
of $8,289,000 above fiscal year 2005 and is equal to the budget 
request.
      The conference agreement includes necessary sums to 
continue efforts to replace locks used to store classified 
information.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report concerning the excessive delay in 
the issuance of regulations governing the recognition of asylum 
claims from women fleeing honor killings, trafficking, sexual 
slavery and domestic violence. The conferees expect the 
Departments of Justice and Homeland Security to issue 
regulations to govern gender-based asylum claims.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House directing the Attorney General, in 
cooperation with the Director of National Intelligence, to 
submit a report, not later than 120 days after enactment of 
this Act, on the practicality of integrating the Drug 
Enforcement Administration, or a portion thereof, into the 
Intelligence Community.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report encouraging the Attorney General 
to ensure that every contract the Department enters into that 
contemplates the exchange of personal data between a contractor 
and the Department includes a provision requiring that entity 
to have a security policy in place that contains procedures to 
promptly notify any individual whose personal information was, 
or is reasonably believed to have been, lost or acquired by an 
unauthorized person. Notification may be delayed or may not 
occur if it would impede a law enforcement investigation or 
jeopardize national security.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report directing the Department to submit 
a report on its efforts to share intelligence relating to 
large, violent gangs with State and local law enforcement 
officials. The report should address specific gangs, drug 
trafficking organizations, the regions in which they operate, 
and the Federal resources allocated to containing these gangs.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report requiring the Department to 
provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations, no later 
than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act and 
quarterly thereafter, on all administrative, E-Gov, and 
centralized training service charges to all components of the 
Department. The report shall include: (1) how costs are 
derived; (2) the specific activities paid for; (3) the savings 
achieved by having a centralized service or E-Gov 
implementation; (4) all data used to compute savings; (5) how 
often the charges are administered; (6) a breakout of all 
centralized services rolled into the General Administration 
account or any other account, as well as in each bureau's 
budgets. Future budget submissions to the Committees on 
Appropriations shall include this detailed breakout.
      The conference agreement includes $500,000, as proposed 
by the Senate, for a third party privacy assessment. The 
Department is the repository of large amounts of personal 
information, much of it related to counterterrorism 
initiatives. With this comes the responsibility of managing and 
protecting this personal information. The party chosen to 
undertake this third party assessment should have knowledge of 
all applicable privacy laws, including the Privacy Act of 1974 
(Public Law 93-579), the E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 
107-347), the privacy provisions of the 2004 Omnibus 
Appropriations Act (Public Law 108-199), and related Office of 
Management and Budget regulations. This assessment should 
provide the framework for implementation of a comprehensive 
privacy program across the Department.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report directing that, within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act, the Department submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations that identifies the cost and use 
of executive aircraft for senior official transport. The report 
should also address whether fractional aircraft ownership is a 
more cost-effective method.
      The conferees commend the Department for the creation of 
a National Sex Offender Public Registry. The conferees 
encourage the Department to continue to enhance the 
capabilities of this useful tool, including the possibility of 
a search function by radius to allow a user to enter an address 
and find all registered sex offenders within a specified 
distance of their neighborhood, regardless of zip code, county 
or State borders.
      The conferees remain concerned about the failure of 
convicted child molesters to register with State and local law 
enforcement agencies when they move into a jurisdiction, as 
required by the laws of many States. According to the National 
Center for Missing and Exploited Children, more than 100,000 
convicted sex offenders have failed to register. The wide 
disparity among the State programs in both registration and 
notification procedures permits sex offenders to forum shop to 
get around reporting. The Attorney General is directed to 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act, on suggested legislative changes 
necessary to address the gaps and loopholes that may exist in 
the current State registration and reporting systems.
      Information Sharing Systems Available to Federal, State, 
and Local Law Enforcement.--The conferees are concerned about 
the proliferation and the growing costs of information sharing 
services available to Federal, State, and local law 
enforcement. To ensure that these efforts are coordinated, cost 
efficient, and not duplicative of each other, the conferees 
direct that within 90 days of enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Information Officer shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations that reviews the numerous information technology 
sharing services available to law enforcement. This report 
shall include recommendations on methods to ensure coordination 
and functionality to provide comprehensive services to law 
enforcement. The services to be considered in the study shall 
include but not be limited to the Regional Information Sharing 
System, the Criminal Information Sharing Alliance Network, 
Nationwide Pegasus Program, Law Enforcement Online, and the 
Department's N-DEX and R-DEX systems.
      Radiation Exposure Compensation.--The conferees direct 
the Department to submit a report, within 90 days of enactment, 
to the Committees on Appropriations detailing those actions 
that the Department and the Congress can take to implement the 
recommendations of the National Academy of Sciences' report on 
the coverage of affected populations by the Radiation Exposure 
Compensation Act (Public Law 108-375).
      Reducing the Number of Alien Absconders.--The conferees 
recognize the importance of reducing the rate of aliens who do 
not comply with Orders of Removal, known as absconders. 
However, the ability to address this situation is not fully 
within the control of one Federal department. Both the 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of Justice 
(DOJ) must work closely together to achieve this goal. The 
conferees direct DOJ, in conjunction with DHS, to study 
existing apprehension, detention, appeal, and removal policies 
and procedures. The conferees direct DHS and DOJ to jointly 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations by February 
18, 2006, on the efforts each Department will take to reduce 
the absconder rate, including proposed changes to existing 
policies, procedures, and laws to further assist in reducing 
the absconder population.
      Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties.--The conference 
agreement adopts, by reference, language included in the House 
report expressing disappointment in the Department's inability 
to complete the initial report on the establishment of this 
Office. The conferees direct the Department to submit the 
initial report, as soon as possible, and to provide subsequent 
annual reports by January 30 of each year. Of the funds 
provided for the Departmental Leadership Program, not less than 
$690,000 shall be available for the Office of Privacy and Civil 
Liberties and for no other purpose.

                 Justice Information Sharing Technology

      The conference agreement provides $125,000,000 for this 
account, instead of $135,000,000 as proposed by both the House 
and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $10,000,000 for the 
Unified Financial Management System and not less than 
$5,000,000 for the Public Key Infrastructure and Secure 
Communications program.
      Information Technology Governance Board.--Given the 
Department's recent high profile information technology (IT) 
failures and the large amount of resources devoted to these 
programs, the conferees direct the Department to set up an 
Investment Review Board to be led by the Deputy Attorney 
General to oversee the development of all critical IT 
infrastructure acquisitions and improvements. The Investment 
Review Board shall review the completeness of the initial 
business case and cost justification, ensure the creation of 
realistic project performance metrics that measure compliance 
with the projects' stated scope, costs, schedule, performance 
and quality. The Attorney General shall, within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act, submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations for approval, a plan that includes the 
organization and membership of the Board and the operating 
agreement defining how the Board governs.
      Automated Biometric Identification System/Integrated 
Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IDENT/IAFIS).--The 
conferees understand that the Secretary of Homeland Security 
announced in July, 2005, the adoption of the biometric standard 
for identification and verification that was recommended by the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology and supported by 
DOJ. The conferees are pleased that Administration officials 
are finally beginning to address the IDENT, IAFIS, U.S.-VISIT 
interoperability issue. The conferees direct the DOJ to submit 
an update on its efforts to make the IDENT, IAFIS, and U.S.-
VISIT systems fully interoperable no later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report directing that the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer manage the Department's participation 
in e-government initiatives and Federal Investigation Case 
Management System.

         Narrowband Communications/Integrated Wireless Network

      The conference agreement provides $90,000,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the Senate, instead of $70,874,000, as 
proposed by the House.

                   Administrative Review and Appeals

      The conference agreement provides $215,685,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $216,286,000, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report concerning guidelines for the 
adjudication of unaccompanied aliens and training for judges 
and pro bono attorneys.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report urging the Office of Immigration 
Review to explore with the DHS the possibility of expanding the 
Legal Orientation Program, which is funded by the DHS.

                           Detention Trustee

      The conference agreement provides $1,222,000,000 for the 
Detention Trustee, as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate. This funding level assumes the use of $45,000,000 of 
prior year unobligated balances.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report requiring a quarterly report on 
the Federal detainee population. The conference agreement 
adopts, by reference, language included in the House report 
regarding the Detention Trustee's efforts to develop automated 
systems to reduce detention time.
      The Detention Trustee shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations 90 days prior to soliciting any contract for new 
detention facilities.

                      Office of Inspector General

      The conference agreement provides 
$68,801,000 for the Office of Inspector General (OIG), instead 
of $66,801,000 as proposed by the House and $70,431,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report directing the OIG to review and 
assess how well the investigations conducted by the Drug 
Enforcement Administration's Mobile Enforcement Teams, the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation's Safe Street Task Forces, the 
United States Marshals Service's Fugitive Task Forces, and 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives' Violent 
Crimes Impact Teams are coordinated.
      The conferees direct the OIG to compile and present to 
the Committees on Appropriations an inventory of all major 
Department information technology systems and planned 
initiatives. This inventory will include the system name, 
system description, component, cost, and implementation status. 
The OIG shall also provide a report that details all research, 
plans, studies, and evaluations that the Department has 
produced, or is in the process of producing, concerning IT 
systems, needs, plans, and initiatives. This shall include an 
analysis that will identify the depth and scope of the problems 
DOJ has experienced in the formulation of its IT plans.
      Sentinel Oversight.--The conference agreement provides an 
additional $2,000,000 to continue to build the OIG's IT 
oversight capacity and to provide the OIG with an enhanced 
capability to conduct ongoing oversight of the Department's IT 
project acquisition and management practices.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $11,000,000 for the 
United States Parole Commission, as proposed by the Senate 
instead of $11,200,000, as proposed by the House.

                            Legal Activities

            SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement provides $661,959,000 for 
General Legal Activities, instead of $665,821,000, as proposed 
by the House, and $648,245,000, as proposed by the Senate. The 
distribution of funding provided is as follows:

                        General Legal Activities

                         [Dollars in thousands]

                                                      2005 appropriation
Office of the Solicitor General...............................    $8,399
Tax Division..................................................    81,548
Criminal Division.............................................   144,957
Civil Division................................................   195,359
Environment and Natural Resources Division....................    93,974
Office of Legal Counsel.......................................     5,937
Civil Rights Division.........................................   110,447
Interpol U.S. National Central Bureau.........................    20,852
Office of Dispute Resolution..................................       486
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

    Total.....................................................   661,959

      Within the level of funding provided, $250,000 shall be 
to enforce subsections (a) and (b) of section 642 of the 
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 
1996.
      Criminal Division.--The conference agreement provides a 
$9,612,000 increase for the Criminal Division, of which 
$1,000,000 and 8 positions (7 attorneys) are for gang 
investigations and prosecutions. These additional resources 
shall be applied to enhance the Department's coordination of 
gang investigations across judicial districts and with 
international law enforcement partners, and to assist U.S. 
Attorneys offices that need additional resources and expertise 
to effectively prosecute complex gang cases.
      The recommendation for the Criminal Division also 
provides a $1,000,000 increase for the Criminal Division to 
target, prosecute, and seize the assets of those who commit 
crimes against the youngest and most vulnerable members of our 
society.
      Civil Rights Division.--The conference agreement fully 
funds the Civil Rights Division's efforts to combat human 
trafficking. The conferees expect the Department to continue 
submitting yearly updates regarding efforts to address human 
trafficking.
      Civil Division.--The conferees recognize the increased 
workload of the Office of Immigration Litigation and expect the 
Civil Division to make increases to the on-board staffing for 
this office a priority within the resources provided.
      The conference agreement includes bill language carried 
in previous appropriations acts allowing the Attorney General 
to provide additional resources to the Civil Division, if 
emergent circumstances warrant, through transfers of funds from 
other Department sources, subject to the requirements of 
section 605 of this Act. The conferees expect the Department to 
submit a reprogramming for costs associated with continuing 
tobacco and other litigation activities, should funding be 
warranted.

               The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act

      The conference agreement includes a reimbursement of 
$6,333,000 from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund to 
DOJ, as proposed by both the House and Senate.

               Salaries and Expenses, Antitrust Division

      The conference agreement provides $144,451,000 for the 
Antitrust Division, as proposed by both the House and Senate.

             Salaries and Expenses, United States Attorneys

      The conference agreement provides $1,600,000,000 for the 
United States Attorneys instead of $1,626,146,000 as proposed 
by the House, and $1,572,654,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $1,500,000 to continue 
and expand task force activities associated with Operation 
Streetsweeper.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report designating $10,000,000 for 
Cybercrime and Intellectual Property Enforcement and requiring 
a report to be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
not later than April 30, 2006, on the number, type, and 
location of copyright prosecutions undertaken in the previous 
year.
      The conference agreement includes not less than 
$27,000,000 for the investigation and prosecution of identity 
theft.
      Within the level of funds provided, the conferees expect 
U.S. Attorneys to make the prosecution of human smugglers, 
referred to as ``coyotes'', a priority.

                   United States Trustee System Fund

      The conference agreement provides $214,402,000 for the 
United States Trustee System Fund, as proposed by both the 
House and Senate.

      Salaries and Expenses, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission

      The conference agreement provides $1,320,000 for this 
account, instead of $1,220,000 as proposed by the House, and 
$1,270,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $793,031,000 for the 
United States Marshals Service (USMS), Salaries and Expenses 
account, instead of $800,255,000 as proposed by the House and 
$764,199,000 as proposed the Senate.
      In addition to inflationary and other required base 
adjustments, the conference agreement includes the following 
program changes: (1) an increase of $100,000 for an 
intelligence analyst to be assigned to the National Gang 
Intelligence Center to coordinate USMS anti-gang fugitive 
activities with other law enforcement agencies; (2) an increase 
of $758,000 for information technology enhancements; (3) an 
increase of $2,500,000 for 25 additional deputy marshals for 
security associated with high-risk cases and the growing number 
of prisoners awaiting trial or sentencing; (4) an increase of 
$100,000 and one position for the Witness Security Program; (5) 
a reduction of $1,745,000 for savings associated with travel 
and training; (6) an increase of $9,000,000 for the 
establishment of a Gulf Coast Fugitive Task Force; (7) an 
increase of $2,185,000 to support the five existing regional 
fugitive task forces, including $425,000 for State and local 
overtime, training, equipment, communication, vehicles, 
contractor support and support to District Fugitive Task Forces 
and $1,760,000 for 12 additional positions; (8) an increase of 
$210,000 for two additional positions for the Criminal 
Information Branch; (9) an increase of $1,063,000 for the 
Technical Operations Group, including $600,000 for 4 additional 
positions and $463,000 for equipment, maintenance and increased 
circuit costs; and (10) an increase of $575,000 for courthouse 
security equipment.
      The conferees are concerned that workloads in local USMS 
offices exceed current staffing levels, raising questions 
regarding the distribution of funds to local offices, current 
restrictions on overtime pay, and staffing levels. The 
conferees direct the USMS to submit a report no later than 
March 31, 2006, detailing how funds are allocated to local USMS 
offices, how full time equivalents and other positions are 
distributed among these offices, and all policies regarding 
restrictions on overtime pay.
      Under the Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement account, 
the conference agreement does not include the requested 
$2,072,000 increase for the USMS.
      Courthouse Security Equipment.--The conference agreement 
provides $12,000,000 for the preventive maintenance and repair 
of courthouse security equipment to be allocated to the USMS's 
highest priority needs. The conference agreement directs the 
USMS to report to the Committees on Appropriations within 30 
days of enactment of this Act on the allocation of this 
funding.
      The conferees are concerned with the long-term courthouse 
security equipment requirements of the USMS. The conferees 
expect the USMS to develop long-term plans to address these 
requirements and expect future budget requests to include 
sufficient resources to address USMS equipment deficiencies.
      Regional Fugitive Task Forces.--The conference agreement 
provides $27,683,000 for Regional Fugitive Task Forces. Of 
these funds, $18,683,000 is provided for the existing five 
regional task forces, including $16,498,000 for base resources, 
$1,760,000 for 12 new positions, and $425,000 for State and 
local overtime, training, equipment, communication, vehicles, 
contractor support and support to District Fugitive Task 
Forces. Within the funds provided, the conference agreement 
includes $9,000,000 for the establishment of a new Gulf Coast 
Regional Fugitive Task Force to be headquartered in Birmingham, 
Alabama; with additional offices in Montgomery, Alabama; 
Mobile, Alabama; Jackson, Mississippi; and Oxford, Mississippi. 
Funds are provided to support 37 new positions (22 in Alabama 
and 10 in Mississippi) and 19 full-time equivalent positions, 
and $3,528,000 is provided for other start-up and operational 
costs.
      Criminal Information Branch.--The conference agreement 
provides $1,050,000 for the Criminal Information Branch, of 
which $840,000 is for base resources and $210,000 is for two 
additional analysts and support personnel.
      Technical Operations Group.--The conference agreement 
provides $17,450,000 for the Technical Operations Group, of 
which: $16,387,000 is for base resources; $463,000 is for 
equipment, maintenance, and increased circuit costs; and 
$600,000 is for four new full-time equivalent positions.
      Criminal Information Systems.--The conference agreement 
provides $2,650,000 in base resources for Criminal Information 
Systems.
      International Fugitives.--The conference agreement 
provides $4,380,000 in base resources for the International 
Fugitive Apprehension Program.
      Special Operations Group.--The conference agreement 
provides $4,414,000 in base resources for the Special 
Operations Group.
      Central Courthouse Management Group.--The conference 
agreement provides $4,433,000 in base resources for the Central 
Courthouse Management Group.
      Emergency Supplemental.--The Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and 
Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 109-13) appropriated 
$11,935,000 to increase judicial security outside of courthouse 
facilities. The conferees understand that there is a 
disagreement between the Department and the Federal Judiciary 
over how future costs for home intrusion detection systems 
should be funded. The conferees expect the executive and 
judicial branches of government to work out their differences 
before submission of the fiscal year 2007 budget request. The 
safety of judges and the efficient use of appropriated funds 
demands improved cooperation and coordination between the 
executive and judicial branches.

                              Construction

      The conference agreement provides $8,883,000 for this 
account instead of no funding as proposed by the House and 
$12,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement provides funding for 
construction in space controlled, occupied, or utilized by the 
USMS in United States courthouses and Federal buildings, 
including but not limited to the creation, renovation, and 
expansion of prisoner movement areas, elevators, sallyports, 
staff offices, and other law enforcement and court security 
support space. As in prior years, the conferees' intent is to 
provide for all construction activity to support the mission of 
the USMS in protection of the Federal judiciary and other law 
enforcement activities. The conferees understand that, due to 
the inherent nature of construction, slippages may occur in the 
construction schedule. As in the past, funds may be directed to 
other locations as needed. However, USMS is directed to notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of such slippages and of the 
plans to redirect such funds prior to the expenditure of those 
funds, in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
      The conference agreement includes $3,000,000 for the 
establishment of the Gulf Coast Regional Fugitive Task Force. 
These funds will support the rent and/or construction of office 
space in five locations, a local area network and high-speed 
communications link, and office furnishings.
      The remaining funds shall be allocated to the USMS' 
highest priority construction needs. The conference agreement 
directs the USMS to report to the Committees on Appropriations 
within 30 days of enactment of this Act on the allocation of 
this funding.
      The conferees are concerned with the long-term 
construction requirements of the USMS. The conferees expect the 
USMS to develop long-term plans to address these requirements 
and expect future budget requests to include sufficient 
resources to address USMS facility deficiencies.

                     Fees and Expenses of Witnesses

      The conference agreement includes $168,000,000 for Fees 
and Expenses of Witnesses, as proposed by both the House and 
Senate.

           Salaries and Expenses, Community Relations Service

      The conference agreement provides $9,659,000 for the 
Community Relations Service, as proposed by both the House and 
Senate.

                         Assets Forfeiture Fund

      The conference agreement includes $21,468,000 for the 
Assets Forfeiture Fund, as proposed by both the House and 
Senate.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT

      The conference agreement provides $489,440,000 for this 
account, instead of $506,940,000 as proposed by the House and 
$440,197,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement provides the following amounts to reimburse agencies 
for their costs of participating in these task forces:

                         Reimbursement by Agency

                         [Dollars in thousands]

  Department of Justice Agencies:                                 Amount
    Drug Enforcement Administration...........................  $196,410
    Federal Bureau of Investigation...........................   136,678
    United States Marshals Service............................     7,022
    Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.......    11,318
    United States Attorneys...................................   128,084
    Criminal Division.........................................     2,702
    Tax Division..............................................       984
    Administrative Office.....................................     6,242
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................   489,440

      The conference agreement does not adopt the 
Administration's proposal to transfer $50,000,000 and 365 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents from the FBI's 
salaries and expenses budget to this account. The conferees 
believe this proposal unnecessarily limits the FBI's ability to 
allocate resources to the highest priority threats such as 
terrorism, counterintelligence, cyber crime and gang 
enforcement.
      The conference agreement does not transfer the High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program from the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy to this account, as proposed in 
the budget request.
      The conferees direct the Department to use prior year 
unobligated balances available in this account to fund the 
operations of the Drug Fusion Center.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $5,728,737,000 for the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Salaries and Expenses 
account, instead of $5,741,132,000 as proposed by the House, 
and $5,295,513,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not adopt the 
Administration's proposal to transfer $50,000,000 and 365 
agents from this account to the Organized Crime and Drug 
Enforcement Task Forces account. This proposal would 
unnecessarily limit the FBI's ability to allocate resources to 
the highest priority and emerging threats such as terrorism, 
counterintelligence, cyber crime and gang enforcement.
      The conference agreement includes an increase of 
$163,211,000 for adjustments to base to support the current 
operating level and provides the following program changes: (1) 
a $26,317,000 increase for intelligence program development, 
training, and employee recruitment; (2) a $36,373,000 increase 
for 329 additional intelligence analyst and intelligence 
support positions; (3) a $26,299,000 increase and an additional 
274 positions for the foreign language program; (4) a 
$25,000,000 increase for additional Top Secret/Sensitive 
Compartmented Information Operational Network connectivity; (5) 
a $70,000,000 increase and an additional 61 positions for the 
Terrorist Screening Center (TSC); (6) a $8,000,000 increase for 
the Law Enforcement On-Line program; (7) a $6,023,000 increase 
and an additional 7 positions for the Terrorist Explosive 
Device Analytical Center (TEDAC); (8) a $69,810,000 increase 
and an additional 396 national security investigations 
personnel; (9) a $14,297,000 increase and an additional 10 
positions to improve IT program management; (10) a $10,000,000 
increase for additional access to SBUNet; (11) a $13,260,000 
increase and an additional 42 positions for legal attache 
expansion and IT infrastructure; (12) a $4,929,000 increase and 
an additional 40 positions to increase the FBI's surveillance 
capabilities; (13) a $35,000,000 increase for counterterrorism 
operations; (14) a $14,295,000 increase and an additional 68 
positions for the Critical Incident Response Group; (15) a 
$20,000,000 increase for renovations to the FBI Academy; (16) a 
$2,690,000 increase and an additional 22 positions for the 
Innocent Images National Initiative; (17) a $1,604,000 increase 
and an additional 10 positions for child exploitation and 
obscenity investigations; (18) a $5,000,000 increase for pay 
and benefit enhancements to continue the implementation of the 
new pay authorities; (19) a $5,000,000 increase for training 
programs; (20) a $20,000,000 increase to accelerate the 
expansion of secure facilities in FBI field offices; (21) a 
$9,700,000 increase for gang enforcement; (22) a $5,000,000 
increase for 100 additional administrative personnel; (23) a 
$5,125,000 increase for the Hazardous Devices School; (24) a 
$20,000,000 increase for the Special Technologies and 
Applications Section; (25) a $3,173,000 increase for Child 
Abduction Rapid Deployment Teams; (26) a $16,796,000 general 
reduction; (27) a $5,404,000 and 42 position reduction in lower 
priority criminal programs; and (28) a $4,674,000 reduction for 
electronic government efficiencies.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report on the FBI Transformation and the 
continuation of quarterly updates.
      The conferees are supportive of the Administration's 
efforts to implement the recommendations of the Commission on 
the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding 
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD Commission) including the 
creation of a National Security Branch within the FBI and a 
National Security Division at the DOJ. The conferees direct the 
Attorney General to submit a report, not later than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act, on the actions taken to implement 
the recommendations of the WMD Commission.
      Infrastructure.--The conferees are concerned that the FBI 
has been neglecting its national security infrastructure over 
the past several years. While the FBI has requested and 
received significant personnel increases since September 11, 
2001, the FBI has not taken adequate steps to ensure that these 
new personnel have the tools to perform their duties 
efficiently. Specifically, the FBI has indicated that it does 
not possess sufficient Sensitive Compartmented Information 
Facilities (SCIF) to equip and house its counterintelligence 
and counterterrorism personnel. To address this shortfall, the 
conferees have included an additional $20,000,000 for SCIFs in 
the field divisions and resident agencies with the greatest 
need. This is in addition to the $20,500,000 in base funding 
for SCIFs. Should additional funding become available, the 
conferees would support a reprogramming of resources for 
additional SCIFs, subject to section 605 of this Act.
      The conferees also direct the FBI to submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations and Committees on Intelligence 
that details its plan, including projected growth, schedule, 
and costs, for providing adequately equipped SCIFs in all field 
divisions and resident agencies conducting national security 
investigations. The report should be submitted no later than 
February 15, 2006.
      In addition to deficiencies in secure space, the 
conferees note that reports by the National Academy of Public 
Administration (NAPA) and the OIG have identified shortfalls in 
the FBI's capability to fill all of their analyst and support 
positions, to implement effective analytical training programs, 
and effectively use IT. Therefore, the conference agreement 
reduces the amount of funding requested for additional staff 
from 2,044 positions to 1,317 positions in order to provide 
additional funding to address these infrastructure 
deficiencies. The conference agreement provides increases above 
the request for IT program management ($7,297,000), training 
programs, including the FBI Academy and the Hazardous Devices 
School ($15,125,000), IT network connectivity ($7,321,000), 
administrative staff ($5,000,000), recruitment and retention 
($5,000,000), and, as discussed above, expanded secure space 
($20,000,000).
      Staffing Increases.--The conference agreement provides 
staffing increases for various requested enhancements including 
national security investigations, surveillance specialists, 
intelligence analysts, the TSC, the TEDAC, the CIRG, and legal 
attache offices. The conferees direct the FBI to provide the 
Committees on Appropriations with a report on how these 
additional staffing resources will be allocated based on 
position type and program to address the highest priority 
threats.
      Information Technology.--The conferees are disappointed 
that the implementation of the Virtual Case Files (VCF) program 
has been unsuccessful, wasting tax payers' dollars and leaving 
agents and analysts without the necessary IT tools. However, 
the conferees note that the FBI has made certain notable 
improvements in its IT program. First, the FBI brought in a 
skilled Chief Information Officer (CIO) and granted him the 
authority and independence to effectively oversee IT throughout 
the FBI. Second, under the CIO's leadership, Sentinel, the 
FBI's new replacement case management system, seems to address 
many of the problems that led to VCF's failure, such as 
independent verification of requirements and cost estimates, 
phased in development and deployment, and commercial off-the-
shelf rather than custom software.
      To help ensure success, the FBI must have program 
management ``bench strength'' as Sentinel moves forward. 
Therefore, the conference agreement includes an increase of 
$14,297,000 to enhance the Office of the CIO. The conferees 
expect the FBI to use the enhanced pay authorities provided in 
fiscal year 2005, as well as the new authority provided this 
year regarding the Senior Executive Service, to enhance and 
stabilize the Office of the CIO.
      The conferees direct the OIG to provide the Committees on 
Appropriations with regular updates during fiscal year 2006 on 
the financial and programmatic status of Sentinel.
      The conference agreement provides no funding for 
Sentinel. The FBI is expected to reprogram existing resources, 
subject to section 605 of this Act, to fund Sentinel costs 
during fiscal year 2006.
      Training.--Within the increases provided for intelligence 
program development and national security personnel, the 
conference agreement includes the requested amounts of 
$5,197,000 for intelligence training and $2,500,000 for 
national security training. In addition, the recommendation 
provides a $20,000,000 increase to perform necessary 
renovations to the FBI Academy, which is $5,000,000 above the 
request. The conferees encourage the FBI to quickly develop and 
implement a plan to renovate the FBI Academy to improve its 
training capabilities. Finally, the conference agreement 
includes an additional $5,000,000 above the request to 
accelerate training enhancements to the FBI's intelligence, 
counterterrorism, and counterintelligence training programs.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report concerning coordination of hiring 
and availability of training; joint training with agents, 
analysts and other Intelligence Community agencies; the 
expansion of the University Education Program, the Sabbatical 
Program, the Fellows Program, and the use of the Foreign 
Service Institute; and working with NAPA to improve training 
programs for first-line supervisors, mid-level managers and 
executives.
      Support and Administrative Staff.--The conference 
agreement provides a $5,000,000 increase for an additional 100 
support staff. The conference agreement adopts, by reference, 
language included in the House report regarding support and 
administrative staff including: directing the FBI to focus its 
hiring efforts on filling vacant support and administrative 
positions in order to improve agent and analyst performance and 
job satisfaction; and re-evaluating the staffing model for the 
number of administrative staff required to support new agents 
and analysts.
      Recruitment and Retention.--Within the increases provided 
for intelligence program development and national security 
personnel, the conference agreement includes the requested 
program increase of $9,200,000 for intelligence analyst 
relocation, bonuses, and college loan repayments, and the 
requested increase of $4,192,000 for special agent transfers. 
In addition, the conference agreement includes $5,000,000 above 
the request to provide additional retention and recruitment 
opportunities. The conference agreement adopts, by reference, 
language included in the House report regarding recruitment and 
retention, including working with NAPA to ensure that the FBI's 
new personnel authorities are used effectively.
      Human Resources.--The conference agreement adopts, by 
reference, language included in the House report regarding 
human resources including working with NAPA to develop a 
comprehensive leadership development strategy and the 
submission of a report on the creation of an Office of Human 
Resources. The report describing the responsibilities of this 
new office shall be submitted not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act and shall describe, at a minimum, how 
this office will: (1) ensure that employee rating systems match 
the FBI's priorities, including intelligence and security; (2) 
ensure the new pay authorities and funding provided to attract 
and retain staff are effectively utilized; (3) develop 
leadership and succession planning programs; and (4) consider 
ways to give FBI field offices more flexibility in hiring 
administrative staff. In addition, this report shall outline 
how the FBI intends to ensure that hiring decisions and 
training availability are coordinated.
      Legal Attache Expansion and Information Technology 
Infrastructure.--The conference agreement includes an increase 
of $9,925,000 and 39 positions for legal attache office 
expansions including a new office in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, and 
office expansions in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; Canberra, 
Australia; London, United Kingdom; Nairobi, Kenya; New Delhi, 
India; Ottawa, Canada; Port of Spain, Trinidad; and Rabat, 
Morocco. This includes increases of $986,000 and 14 positions 
for headquarters support, $5,696,000 for 25 field positions, 
and $3,243,000 for non-personnel infrastructure requirements. 
In addition, the conference agreement provides an increase of 
$3,335,000 and 3 positions to establish a legal attache office 
in San Salvador, El Salvador.
      Gang Enforcement.--The conference agreement includes a 
$5,000,000 increase to establish 20 additional Safe Streets 
Task Forces, and a $4,700,000 increase for additional National 
Gang Intelligence Center and task force needs. As discussed 
earlier, the conference agreement includes an increase of 
$3,335,000 to create a legal attache office in San Salvador, El 
Salvador. This office is established to enhance cooperation in 
gang investigations with international law enforcement 
partners.
      Security Clearances.--Within the increase provided for 
intelligence program development, the conference agreement 
includes the requested program increase of $3,526,000 for 
additional contract adjudicators to ensure the FBI has the most 
trustworthy workforce available and to increase its capability 
to recognize applicants who have been directed to seek 
employment with the FBI by hostile organizations or groups. The 
conferees encourage the FBI to use information technology 
tools, as appropriate, to reduce the amount of time required to 
perform background checks and promote reciprocity between 
government agencies.
      Cyber Investigations.--The conference agreement includes 
a $20,000,000 increase for the Special Technologies and 
Applications Section (STAS) for recurring operational needs. 
These funds may be used for personnel funding for additional 
Special Agent and other personnel to meet the needs of the 
program.
      The conferees direct the FBI to establish a cyber crime 
task force in Birmingham, AL. The FBI shall report to the 
Committees on its progress within 60 days of the enactment of 
this Act.
      The conference agreement provides an increase of 
$2,690,000 for the Innocent Images National Initiative (IINI) 
to expand field training programs, strengthen interagency 
partnerships with law enforcement partners, and provide 
increased operational support to the field. IINI is an 
intelligence-driven, proactive, multi-agency investigative 
initiative to combat the proliferation of child pornography and 
child sexual exploitation facilitated by an online computer. 
The IINI provides centralized coordination and analysis of case 
information that by its very nature is national and 
international in scope, requiring unprecedented coordination 
throughout the FBI, as well as with State, local, and 
international governments.
      Child Exploitation and Obscenity Investigations.--In 
coordination with the DOJ Criminal Division's Child 
Exploitation and Obscenity Section (CEOS) and the National 
Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), the FBI has 
implemented the ``Innocent Lost'' initiative, which is intended 
to address the growing problem of domestic child prostitution. 
The FBI provides the investigative aspect of the initiative, 
while DOJ-CEOS commits the prosecutorial resources and the 
NCMEC provides training for the participating field offices. 
The conference agreement includes an additional $1,604,000 to 
more aggressively identify, investigate, and prosecute crimes 
of this nature.
      Criminal Justice Information Services Division.--The 
conference agreement includes $395,700,000, including fee 
collections, for the Criminal Justice Information Services 
Division (CJIS). As in previous years, under no circumstances 
is the FBI to divert funding collected through the CJIS user 
fee for any purpose other than CJIS, its refreshment plan, or a 
subsequent modernization plan for the current facility.
      Next Generation Integrated Automated Fingerprint 
Identification System (IAFIS).--The conferees support the FBI's 
efforts to improve the speed and accuracy of IAFIS, expand the 
data available in the system, and improve its latent print 
capabilities. The conferees direct the FBI to use excess user 
fee collections from various Criminal Justice Information 
Services' programs to fully fund the Next Generation IAFIS 
project in fiscal year 2006 including the $16,808,000 requested 
program increase.
      Hazardous Devices School.--The Hazardous Devices School 
(HDS) trains bomb technicians from around the world to locate, 
identify, render safe, and dispose of improvised explosive 
devices, as well as learn to use specialized equipment and 
protective clothing needed for the safe disposal of explosive 
materials. To ensure HDS has leading edge technology to match 
this critical mission, the conference agreement includes a 
$5,125,000 increase to develop, produce, and deploy a simulated 
training module that will enhance its training program.
      Intellectual Property Rights.--Industrial espionage, by 
both erstwhile friends and obvious foes, has become the growth 
industry in the counterintelligence world. The struggle for 
domination among major powers is now played out in largely 
economic terms. Ideas and innovation are the sinews of national 
strength. Within available resources, $9,000,000 shall be 
available to combat industrial espionage and other threats to 
the intellectual property rights of manufacturers and 
researchers in the United States.
      The conferees are also concerned about identity theft and 
encourage the FBI to work with the U.S. Attorneys to increase 
investigations and prosecutions in this area.
      National Name Check Programs.--The conferees understand 
there is a significant backlog in the processing of background 
checks for petitions and applications pending before the United 
States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). The FBI is 
reimbursed for the cost of these background checks by USCIS. 
The conferees direct the FBI to ensure that current fees paid 
by USCIS are directed solely toward completion of USCIS 
background checks and prevention of future backlogs of USCIS 
background checks. The FBI is further directed to submit a 
report to Congress identifying current use of funds submitted 
by USCIS for purposes of background checks and to include in 
that report a fee review to determine whether current fees 
accurately reflect cost savings that have been developed as a 
result of transition to an electronic rather than paper-based 
system.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report concerning information sharing, 
the records management center, the correctional intelligence 
initiative, and enforcement of export laws.

                              Construction

      The conference agreement provides $37,608,000 for FBI 
construction, instead of $20,105,000 as proposed by the House 
and $25,213,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes funding for the 
following projects: (1) $5,000,000 for a chemical and 
biological evidence handling and storage facility to be co-
located with comparable facilities in existence for sampling, 
handling, and receipt of hazardous material by the Department 
of the Army; (2) $7,500,000 for Critical Incident Response 
Group facility needs; (3) $10,000,000 for equipment and other 
necessary costs associated with establishing a permanent 
records management facility; and (4) $15,108,000 for the FBI 
Center for Integrated Training and Technology Transfer at 
Redstone Arsenal. The Center will provide training areas 
including secure space, classrooms, and practical problem areas 
for both FBI personnel and State and local bomb technicians.

                    Drug Enforcements Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement appropriates $1,686,457,000 for 
the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), instead of 
$1,716,173,000 as proposed by the House and $1,647,142,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement does not adopt the 
Administration's proposal to reduce Mobile Enforcement Teams or 
to eliminate the Demand Reduction program. The conference 
agreement funds these programs at their current services level. 
The conferees direct the DEA to focus these programs on 
combating methamphetamine (meth) production, trafficking and 
abuse.
      The conference agreement includes an increase of $215,000 
for 2 intelligence analysts to be assigned to the National Gang 
Intelligence Center to coordinate DEA anti-gang activities with 
other law enforcement agencies.
      The conferees direct the DEA to focus the remaining 
funding increase on its highest priority programs such as 
combating heroin trafficking in Afghanistan and Central Asia, 
and enhancing its intelligence capabilities.
      Within the total level of funding provided in this bill 
and in prior years, the conferees expect DEA to establish a 
presence in Dubai, United Arab Emirates to help combat the 
movement of proceeds from heroin trafficking.
      In addition, the conference agreement includes 
$20,000,000 under the Office of Justice Programs for DEA to 
assist State and local law enforcement with proper removal and 
disposal of hazardous materials at clandestine meth labs and to 
initiate a container program, including funding for training, 
technical assistance and purchase of equipment to adequately 
remove and store hazardous material. Within the level of 
funding provided, DEA shall dedicate three positions to manage 
and oversee this program.
      Air Assets.--DEA's mission is to disrupt and dismantle 
the major drug trafficking organizations responsible for 
supplying the bulk of illegal drugs that enter the United 
States. The conferees strongly support this mission, but are 
concerned about the lack of air assets available to DEA agents 
stationed in key transit countries. To be most effective in 
these locations, DEA must be able to react quickly to 
traffickers' movements to intercept and deny large shipments of 
drugs bound for the United States. Due to other pressing 
demands, the air assets of the Defense Department and other law 
enforcement agencies are not generally available for DEA's use, 
leaving DEA unable to respond to important enforcement 
opportunities. The conferees direct the DEA to provide a report 
by April 1, 2006, on the availability of air assets, both its 
own and those of other agencies, to meet its demands for squad-
size deployments of DEA agents in key transit zone countries.
      Diversion Control Fee Account.--The conference agreement 
includes $201,673,000 for this account, which is $47,457,000 
above fiscal year 2005. The conference agreement includes the 
following increases: (1) $11,735,000 for inflationary and other 
base adjustments; (2) $8,726,000 to annualize the fiscal year 
2005 transfer of the Drug and Chemical Diversion Control 
Decision Unit to the Diversion Control Fee Account; (3) 
$13,435,000 transferred from the Salaries and Expenses account 
to more accurately reflect DEA's actual diversion control 
activities; (4) $8,857,000 and 41 positions to improve 
intelligence analysis supporting diversion investigations; and 
(5) $4,704,000 and 23 positions for additional agents to 
conduct diversion investigations.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $923,613,000 for the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) as 
proposed by the House, instead of $923,700,000 as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes the following changes: 
(1) $13,314,000 increase for inflationary and other base 
adjustments; (2) $20,000,000 increase for Violent Crime Impact 
Teams (VCIT); (3) $966,000 reduction for savings in travel and 
training; (4) $6,000,000 increase for the Terrorist Explosive 
Device Analysis Center; (5) $1,500,000 increase for the 
National Arson Laboratory; (6) $300,000 increase for 2 
intelligence analysts to be assigned to the National Gang 
Intelligence Center to coordinate ATF anti-gang activities with 
other law enforcement agencies; and (7) $5,000,000 increase for 
the National Center for Explosives Training and Research.
      The conference agreement does not adopt the 
Administration's proposal to transfer $500,000 and 2 positions 
to the Department's Office of Legislative Affairs.
      Terrorist Explosive Device Analysis Center (TEDAC).--The 
conference agreement provides an increase of $6,000,000 for 
ATF's participation in the TEDAC. The conference agreement 
adopts, by reference, language included in the Senate report 
requiring the submission of a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations no later than 30 days after enactment of this 
Act, that identifies: (1) the number of IEDs recovered and 
submitted to the TEDAC; (2) the dates the devices were 
recovered and sent to the TEDAC; (3) the dates the devices were 
technically and forensically exploited; (4) the number of 
completed examinations; (5) the dates the results of 
examinations were disseminated to State and local first 
responders; and (6) a detailed summary of the information 
provided in those reports. In addition, this report shall 
provide a spending plan detailing how the $6,000,000 increase 
will be allocated.
      National Center for Explosives Training and Research.--
The conference agreement provides an additional $5,000,000 for 
site selection, architectural design, site preparation and a 
total cost estimate for the construction of a permanent site 
for the National Center for Explosives Training and Research. 
In considering site selection, the ATF shall consider a site 
co-located with other law enforcement and Federal government 
entities that provides similar training and research. The 
dynamic of these collective resources will provide a unique 
opportunity to leverage assets, knowledge, and expertise in the 
field, providing Federal, State and local law enforcement 
explosives expertise at a single location.
      Violent Crime Impact Teams.--VCITs are ATF-led task 
forces that are established in locations with high or 
increasing rates of violence and include participants from 
State and local law enforcement and other Federal law 
enforcement entities such as U.S. Attorneys, the U.S. Marshals 
Service, and the Drug Enforcement Administration. The 
conference agreement includes a $20,000,000 increase for VCITs 
including funding for special agents, inspectors, technical 
support staff and operations.
      Proposed Fees to Fund Existing Law Enforcement 
Operations.--The conferees are disappointed by the Department's 
legislative proposal of a $120,000,000 fee on the explosives 
industry and a permit fee on users to fund existing base 
operations and programs of the ATF. The conferees understand 
the legislative proposal for the fee has yet to be transmitted 
to Congress and that if this fee were enacted today, it would 
take two years to put the regulatory structure in place before 
any funds could be collected. The conferees find it 
irresponsible to budget for ongoing fiscal year 2006 law 
enforcement operations with funds that do not exist. These 
types of creative financing schemes could ultimately lead to a 
disruption to the Department's law enforcement programs.
      The conferees encourage ATF to continue to assess the 
utility of new ballistic imaging products to ensure that the 
National Integrated Ballistic Information Network program 
continues to meet the technological and programmatic needs of 
its State and local law enforcement partners.
      Conversion of Records.--The conferees recognize the need 
for ATF to complete the conversion of tens of thousands of 
existing Federal firearms dealer out-of-business records from 
film to digital images at the ATF National Tracing Center. Once 
the out-of-business records are fully converted, search time 
for these records will be reduced significantly. The conference 
agreement includes $4,200,000 for the ATF to hire additional 
contract personnel to continue the conversion and integration 
of records.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report regarding multiple handgun sales 
reports and forfeiture actions.

                         Federal Prison System

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $4,892,649,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Prison System (FPS), 
instead of $4,895,649,000 as proposed by the House and 
$4,889,649,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees remain concerned about the annual budget 
requests for the FPS. The conferees are disturbed by the 
Administration's fiscal year 2006 proposal to rescind prison 
construction funds at a time when the inmate population is 
expected to steadily increase and over-crowding is expected to 
remain a significant problem. The conferees encourage the 
Administration to more accurately report the needs of the FPS 
in future budget requests.
      The funds provided for the salaries and expenses of the 
FPS shall be distributed as shown below and any deviation from 
this distribution is subject to the reprogramming requirements 
of section 605 of this Act.

                          Salaries and Expenses

                         [Dollars in thousands]

Inmate Care and Programs................................      $1,762,523
Institution Security and Administration.................       2,256,037
Contract Confinement....................................         691,867
Management and Administration...........................         182,222
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
      Total.............................................       4,892,649

      Activations and Expansions of Prisons.--The conferees 
include an increase of $85,017,000 for the activation of three 
new facilities and the expansion of two existing facilities. In 
addition, the second year activation costs of the Coleman, FL, 
facility are included within the base funding provided. The 
conferees define ``activation'' as open and receiving 
prisoners.

                   Activation of New Prison Facilities

Activation of New Prison Facilities: thousands]
    United States Penitentiary, Tucson, AZ....................   $37,647
    Federal Correctional Institution, Butner, NC..............    29,190
    Hazelton, WV, Secure Women's Facility.....................    10,297
Activation of Expanded Prison Facilities:
    United States Penitentiary, Florence, CO, Special Housing 
      Unit....................................................     1,242
    Sandstone, MN, Housing Unit Expansion.....................     6,641
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................    85,017

      Within the amounts provided, the conference agreement 
provides the full requested amount for Beckley Federal 
Correctional Institution, Gilmer Federal Correctional 
Institution, and United States Penitentiary in Hazelton.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report on the following: expanding 
intergovernmental agreements; continuing drug treatment 
programs; pursuing a reimbursable agreement; assigning an 
intelligence analyst; supporting cost saving initiatives with 
consideration for current employees; requiring a report on 
programs for mentally-ill offenders; and encouraging 
marksmanship training. The conference agreement adopts, by 
reference, language included in the House report on inmate 
correspondence and revises the report due date to February 1, 
2006. The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House and Senate reports on sexual abuse. The 
conference agreement incorporates, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report concerning interaction with the 
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
      Contract Confinement.--In order to meet bedspace needs in 
a cost effective manner, the conferees adopt, by reference, 
language included in the House and Senate reports supporting 
contracting.
      Cost Comparison.--The conferees request that the 
Government Accountability Office conduct a review of low and 
minimum security facilities that compares the following: (1) 
the costs of housing inmates in Federally-owned prisons; (2) 
the costs of using State and local prisons and jails obtained 
through Intergovernmental Agreements; and (3) the costs of 
using privately-managed facilities. The report shall include 
all costs associated with operating these facilities.
      Residential Re-entry.--The conference agreement includes 
an increase of $3,000,000 to expand faith-based re-entry 
programs to at least three institutions.

                        Buildings and Facilities

      The conference agreement provides $90,112,000 for 
construction, modernization, maintenance, and repair of prison 
and detention facilities housing Federal prisoners, instead of 
$70,112,000 as proposed by the House and $222,112,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conferees understand that the 
Federal Prison System ended fiscal year 2005 with significant 
carryover balances for maintenance and repair projects; 
therefore, new funding has been reduced accordingly.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House and Senate reports expressing concern 
over prison safety if construction funds are rescinded. The 
conferees reject the proposed rescission of $314,000,000 of 
construction balances.
      The conference agreement provides $3,000,000 for site 
planning and further development of a medium or high security 
facility or facilities at Yazoo City, MS, $15,000,000 for site 
planning and further development of another medium or high 
security facility or facilities in the Aliceville, AL, area, 
and an additional $5,000,000 for site planning and development 
of a Federal Correctional Institution in Letcher County, KY.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the Senate report concerning projections of the Federal 
prison population, construction of additional facilities on the 
site of existing facilities, and housing of geriatric inmates.
      The conferees note that any reallocation of funds within 
this account, including carryover balances, is subject to 
section 605 of this Act.

                Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated

                (LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES)

      The conference agreement includes language regarding a 
limit on administrative expenses of $3,365,000 for Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated (FPI).

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND PROSECUTION PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $386,502,000 for 
violence against women prevention and prosecution programs, 
instead of $389,497,000 as proposed by the House and 
$371,997,000 as proposed by the Senate. The following table 
outlines the funding provided in the conference agreement.

       Violence Against Women Prevention and Prosecution Programs

                         (Dollars in thousands)

        Program                                     Conference agreement
STOP Grants...................................................  $187,308
    (National Institute of Justice--R&D)......................   (5,100)
    (Safe Start Program)......................................  (10,000)
    (Transitional Housing Assistance).........................  (15,000)
Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies...........................    63,075
Rural Domestic Violence Assistance Grants.....................    39,166
Violence on College Campuses..................................     9,054
Civil Legal Assistance........................................    39,220
Elder Abuse Grant Program.....................................     4,540
Safe Haven Project............................................    13,894
Education & Training for Disabled Female Victims..............     7,155
CASA (Special Advocates)......................................    11,897
Training for Judicial Personnel...............................     2,287
Grants for Televised Testimony................................       986
Training Programs.............................................     4,958
Stalking Database.............................................     2,962
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................   386,502

      Native American/Native Alaskan Liaison Office.--The 
conferees understand that Native American and Native Alaskan 
women experience a higher rate of violence compared to any 
other group in the United States. These individuals lack a 
comprehensive community response to address their needs in 
breaking the cycle of violence. Last year, a liaison office was 
created to address this concern. The conference agreement 
includes $6,700,000 for the Native American/Native Alaskan 
Liaison Office to continue their work in Alaska, of which 
$950,000 is for the rural domestic violence prosecution unit; 
$5,000,000 is for the State of Alaska Sexual Assault/Domestic 
Violence Program; and $750,000 is for the Victims for Justice 
in Alaska.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           JUSTICE ASSISTANCE

      The conference agreement provides $233,233,000 for 
Justice Assistance. The conferees do not adopt the 
Administration's proposal to consolidate all Office of Justice 
Programs (OJP) activities under this heading. The following 
table outlines the funding provided in the conference 
agreement.

                           Justice Assistance

                         [Dollars in thousands]

        Program                                     Conference agreement
National Institute of Justice.................................   $55,000
Bureau of Justice Statistics..................................    35,000
State Automated Victim Notification...........................     9,000
Justice for All...............................................     2,000
National White Collar Crime...................................     9,000
Regional Information Sharing System...........................    40,233
Management and Administration.................................    35,000
Missing Children Programs.....................................    48,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................   233,233

      National Institute of Justice.--The conference agreement 
provides $55,000,000 for the National Institute of Justice. 
This funding supports counterterrorism research and 
development, the Office of Science and Technology, social 
science research and evaluation, and the National Law 
Enforcement and Corrections Technology Centers.
      The conference agreement includes $21,000,000 for the 
National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Centers, 
which shall be distributed equally among the Centers. Within 
the amounts provided for the National Institute of Justice 
(NIJ), $3,000,000 is for the Center for Rural Law Enforcement 
Technology and Training and $2,800,000 is for the Office of Law 
Enforcement Technology Commercialization, Inc. The conferees 
support the Border Research and Technology Center and recognize 
the important technology assistance and technical information 
it has provided to Federal, State, and local law enforcement 
operations in the border region.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report requiring a report on the various 
forensic centers that have received previous grant funding. The 
due date for the report is modified to January 15, 2006.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report concerning a comprehensive 
comparison of privately-operated prisons and Federal 
institutions. The conferees understand that this report is in 
its final stages and should be delivered within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act and shall meet the requirement in the 
Senate report language.
      The conferees are aware of NIJ's efforts to assist local 
units of government to identify, select, develop, modernize and 
purchase new technologies, and support NIJ's work to develop 
less-lethal portable systems for evaluation by local law 
enforcement and corrections agencies.
      Victim Notification.--The conference agreement includes 
$9,000,000 for the Bureau of Justice Assistance to continue the 
State Automated Victim Notification grant program to allow 
States to join the National Victim Notification Network. No 
funding may be utilized from within the Victims Assistance 
Program for this initiative and funds provided under this 
heading shall require a 50 percent match from State, local, and 
private sources.
      Justice for All.--The conference agreement includes 
$2,000,000 for the activities authorized by section 103(b)(4) 
of the Justice for All Act, Public Law 108-405, for the support 
of the National Crime Victim Law Institute and its clinic 
organizations that provide legal counsel and support services 
for victims in criminal cases for the enforcement of crime 
victims' rights in Federal jurisdictions.
      Missing Children Programs.--The conference agreement 
includes $48,000,000 for Missing Children Programs, as follows:

                        Missing Children Programs

                         [Dollars in thousands]

        Program                                     Conference agreement
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children............   $24,000
Jimmy Ryce Law Enforcement Training Center....................     3,000
Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force...................    14,500
Missing and Exploited Children Office.........................     1,500
AMBER Alert Program...........................................     5,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

    Total.....................................................    48,000

      Coordination with U.S. Attorneys.--To ensure a viable 
partnership between Federal, State, and local law enforcement 
agencies and prosecutors, recipients of Internet Crimes Against 
Children (ICAC) grants are encouraged to coordinate their 
investigations and initiatives with the U.S. Attorneys in their 
communities.
      National Center for Missing and Exploited Children 
(NCMEC).--The conferees strongly support the NCMEC's nationwide 
services for the prevention of abduction, endangerment, and 
sexual exploitation of children. The conferees commend the 
leadership of NCMEC for their dedication to these issues. The 
conference agreement adopts, by reference, language included in 
the House report regarding Internet service providers.
      Management and Administration.--The conference agreement 
include $35,000,000 for the management and administration of 
OJP. In addition, consistent with prior practice, reimbursable 
funding for management and administration costs will be made 
available from programs administered by OJP from the 
``Community Oriented Policing Services'' account. Further, the 
conferees note that remaining management and administration 
funding will be made available from the ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs'' and the ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'' accounts, and that these funds will be transferred 
to and merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account.
      The conferees direct that any action taken by OJP 
relating to the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-76 
shall be subject to the requirements of section 605 of this 
Act.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance

      The conference agreement provides $1,142,707,000 for this 
account, instead of $1,069,244,000 as proposed by the House and 
$1,353,350,000 as proposed by the Senate. The following table 
outlines the funding provided in the conference agreement.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance

                         [Dollars in thousands]

        Program                                     Conference agreement
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants......................  $416,478
    (Boys and Girls Clubs)....................................  (85,000)
    (National Institute of Justice)...........................  (10,000)
State Criminal Alien Assistance...............................   405,000
Southwest Border Prosecutor Program...........................    30,000
Indian Assistance.............................................    22,000
    (Tribal Prison Construction Program)......................   (9,000)
    (Indian Tribal Courts Program)............................   (8,000)
    (Alcohol and Substance Abuse).............................   (5,000)
Byrne Discretionary Grants....................................   191,704
Victims of Trafficking Grants.................................    10,000
State Prison Drug Treatment...................................    10,000
Drug Courts...................................................    10,000
Prescription Drug Monitoring..................................     7,500
Prison Rape Prevention and Prosecution........................    18,175
Intelligence State and Local Training.........................    10,000
Missing Alzheimer's Patients..................................       850
Capital Litigation............................................     1,000
Cannabis Eradication..........................................     5,000
Mentally-Ill Offender Act Programs............................     5,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total................................................... 1,142,707

      Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants 
program.--The conference agreement includes $416,478,000. The 
conference agreement is $416,478,000 above the budget request.
      As in fiscal year 2005, this program consolidates the 
Local Law Enforcement Block Grant program and the Byrne Formula 
program. Funding under this program is authorized for: (a) law 
enforcement programs; (b) prosecution and court programs; (c) 
prevention and education programs; (d) corrections and 
community corrections programs; (e) drug treatment programs; 
and (f) planning, evaluation, and technology improvement 
programs. Funding under this program is not available for: (a) 
vehicles, vessels, or aircraft; (b) luxury items; (c) real 
estate; or (d) construction projects.
      The formula used for distributing funds under this 
program allocates 50 percent of funding based on population, 
and 50 percent based on violent crime rates. The formula 
allocates 60 percent of funding to States and 40 percent to 
units of local government. Of the amount provided, $85,000,000 
is for Boys and Girls Clubs and $10,000,000 is for NIJ to 
assist local units of government to identify, select, develop, 
modernize, and purchase new technologies for use by law 
enforcement.
      Indian Country Grants.--The conference agreement includes 
$22,000,000 for Indian Country grants. The conferees 
acknowledge the success that the Comprehensive Indian Resources 
for Community Law Enforcement (CIRCLE) initiative is having and 
urges the Department to continue to work on ways to expand 
CIRCLE. The conference agreement includes $7,000,000 for 
construction of the Choctaw Justice Center in Mississippi.
      Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants.--The conference 
agreement includes $191,704,000 for discretionary grants under 
this account.
      Within the amounts provided, OJP is expected to review 
the following proposals, provide grants if warranted, and 
report to the Committees on Appropriations regarding its 
intentions:


      Harold Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program.--The 
conference agreement includes $7,500,000 to assist States in 
building or enhancing prescription drug monitoring systems, 
facilitating the exchange of information between States, and 
providing technical assistance and training on establishing and 
operating effective prescription drug monitoring programs.
      Prison Rape Prevention and Prosecution.--The conference 
agreement provides $18,175,000 for implementation of the Prison 
Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79). The 
conference agreement includes the following: $15,000,000 for 
the collection of statistics, data and research as authorized 
by section 4 of the Act; $1,000,000 for the National Institute 
of Corrections for a national clearinghouse, training and 
education as authorized by section 5 of the Act; and $2,175,000 
to be transferred to the National Prison Rape Elimination 
Commission. Because of the delay in awarding previous years' 
funding, no new funds are provided for the grant program 
authorized by section 6 of the Act. The conferees expect DOJ to 
award the existing funds as soon as possible.
      Improving State and Local Law Enforcement Intelligence 
Capabilities.--The conference agreement includes $10,000,000 
for the implementation of the National Criminal Intelligence 
Sharing Plan and the efforts of the Global Justice Information 
Sharing Initiative. The conferees direct this funding to be 
used to support training for State and local law enforcement on 
the intelligence process including planning, collection, 
analysis, dissemination and reevaluation. This program should 
continue to provide support for training in the use of 
intelligence as a tool in identifying pre-incident indicators. 
This training should ensure that law enforcement officials are 
protecting individuals' privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, 
and constitutional rights within the intelligence process. The 
conferees also expect some funding to be available to promote 
the use of information technology standards among law 
enforcement to ensure that the data can be exchanged across 
disparate information systems.
      Mentally-Ill Offenders.--The conferees are concerned 
about the effects of the criminal justice system on the 
mentally-ill. The conference agreement includes $5,000,000 for 
programs authorized by the Mentally Ill Offender Act of 2004.

                       WEED AND SEED PROGRAM FUND

      The conference agreement provides $50,000,000 for the 
Weed and Seed program as proposed by the House, instead of 
$50,280,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                  COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $478,300,000 for 
Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) programs, instead 
of $566,557,000 as proposed by the House and $534,987,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The following table outlines the 
funding provided in the conference agreement.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

                         [Dollars in thousands]

        Program                                     Conference agreement
Training and Technical Assistance.............................    $4,000
Tribal Law Enforcement........................................    15,000
Meth Hot Spots................................................    63,590
Law Enforcement Technologies and Interoperable Communications 
    Program...................................................   139,904
Bullet-Proof Vests............................................    30,000
Criminal Records Upgrade......................................    10,000
DNA Initiative................................................   108,531
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science...............................    18,500
Crime Identification Technology Act...........................    28,775
Gang Violence Program.........................................    40,000
Project Safe Neighborhoods....................................    15,000
Offender Re-Entry.............................................     5,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................   478,300
      Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean-Up.--The conference 
agreement includes $63,580,000 for State and local law 
enforcement programs to combat methamphetamine (meth) 
production and distribution, to target drug ``hot spots'' and 
to remove and dispose of hazardous materials at clandestine 
methamphetamine labs.
      Within the amount provided, the conference agreement 
includes $20,000,000 to reimburse the Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) for assistance to State and local law 
enforcement for proper removal and disposal of hazardous 
materials at clandestine methamphetamine labs and to initiate 
container programs, including funds for training, technical 
assistance, and purchase of equipment to adequately remove and 
store hazardous waste.
      In addition, within the amount provided, the conferees 
expect the COPS Program Office, in consultation with DEA, to 
examine each of the following proposals, to provide grants if 
warranted, and to submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on its intentions for each proposal:


      The conferees direct the Partnership for a Drug Free 
America to focus the efforts of its Methamphetamine Demand 
Reduction Program on regions adversely impacted by the abuse, 
production and trafficking of meth, as well as regions likely 
to experience meth-related problems. When identifying regions 
to deploy this program, program coordinators shall consider 
national tracking data systems that monitor the abuse of 
methamphetamine, such as the Monitoring the Future study; drug-
related emergency room admission data; meth lab seizure data; 
and other national, State and local data sources. The conferees 
expect the Partnership to work to incorporate the State of 
Indiana into this program.
      Law Enforcement Technologies and Interoperable 
Communications Program.--The conference agreement includes 
$139,904,000 for the COPS Law Enforcement Technologies and 
Interoperable Communications Programs. Within the funds 
provided, $10,000,000 is for the COPS program to continue its 
competitive interoperable communications grant program. The 
conferees understand the critical need for minimum standards 
for law enforcement communications equipment and strongly 
support the standards being designed and implemented by the 
COPS office, in consultation with the National Institute of 
Justice's Office of Science and Technology (OS&T), as well as 
the Bureau of Justice Assistance. Coordination of Federal 
efforts is critical. Therefore, OS&T should continue to assist 
COPS in incorporating existing minimum standards into the 
formulation of this grant program. The conferees have allowed 
$5,000,000 from prior year deobligated balances to be 
transferred to NIST to continue the efforts of the Office of 
Law Enforcement Standards (OLES) towards developing a 
comprehensive suite of minimum standards for law enforcement 
communications.
      The inability to apply open standards to communications 
equipment purchased under the COPS Interoperable Communications 
Grant Program, as well as other Federal grant programs 
continues to be of great concern to the conferees. In fiscal 
year 2005, the conferees directed OLES, working with the 
National Institute of Justice's CommTech Program and SAFECOM 
within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to consider, 
in the absence of published Project 25 standards, the issuance 
of interim standards that could be used to specify the required 
functionality and testing validation for an Inter-RF-Subsystem 
Interface (ISSI), Console Interface, and Fixed Station 
Interface for land mobile radio systems. The conferees direct 
that within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, OLES shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing 
the process by which interim standards will be identified, as 
well as a timeline for issuance this fiscal year. The conferees 
also direct that, within this report, OLES identify a process 
to ensure that equipment procured using Federal grant dollars 
complies with the requirements of the identified standard(s). 
At a minimum, the Office of Interoperability and Compatibility 
(OIC) within DHS should consider working with NIST and DOJ to 
require that all grant dollars for interoperable communication 
be used for Project 25 compliant equipment that meets the 
requirements of a conformity assessment program.
      Within the amounts provided, the conferees expect the 
COPS office to examine each of the following proposals, to 
provide grants if warranted, and to submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on its intentions for each 
proposal:


      Crime Identification Technology Act.--The conference 
agreement includes $28,775,000 for the Crime Identification 
Technology Act program. Within the amounts provided, the 
conferees expect OJP to examine each of the following 
proposals, to provide grants if warranted, and to submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations on its intentions 
for each proposal:


      Bulletproof Vest Program.--Within the $30,000,000 
provided, the conferees expect that funds will be dedicated to 
OLES at NIST to continue support for the ballistic resistant 
and stab resistant material compliance testing programs, as 
well as for other technical support related to public safety 
weapons and protective systems.
      DNA and Forensics.--The conference agreement includes 
$108,531,000 for a DNA analysis and capacity enhancement 
program including eliminating casework backlogs, eliminating 
offender backlogs, strengthening crime lab capacity, training 
of the criminal justice community and identifying missing 
persons. Within the amounts provided, $5,000,000 shall be for 
OLES to continue working with the COPS office to develop 
minimum standards for equipment and testing for forensic 
science labs.
      In addition, the conference agreement provides 
$18,500,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences Improvement 
Grants. Within the amounts provided for Paul Coverdell Forensic 
Sciences Improvement Grants, $1,500,000 is for the National 
Academy of Sciences to conduct a study on forensic science, as 
described in the Senate report.
      Anti-Gang Program.--The conference agreement provides 
$40,000,000 for a new anti-gang initiative modeled on the 
Project Safe Neighborhoods program. The conferees appreciate 
and support the Attorney General's efforts to strengthen 
Department-wide efforts to combat gang violence and the 
appointment of an Assistant U.S. Attorney in each judicial 
district as an anti-gang coordinator to prepare a 
comprehensive, district-wide strategy (in consultation with 
partners from Federal and local law enforcement, social 
services providers, and community and faith-based groups) to 
coordinate anti-gang activity. The conference agreement 
includes $40,000,000 for grants to implement these strategies. 
The funding is intended to support additional enforcement and 
prevention activities.
      Project Safe Neighborhoods.--The conference agreement 
provides $15,000,000 for a national program to reduce gun 
violence. Of the amounts provided, $4,500,000 is for State and 
local prosecutor training.

                       JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement includes $342,739,000 for 
Juvenile Justice Programs, instead of $333,712,000 as proposed 
by the House and $352,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
following table outlines the funding provided in the conference 
agreement:

                        Juvenile Justice Programs

                         [Dollars in thousands]

        Program                                     Conference agreement
Part A--Coordination of Federal Efforts.......................     $ 712
Part B--State Formula.........................................    80,000
Part E--Demonstration Projects................................   106,027
Juvenile Mentoring Program....................................    10,000
    Big Brothers/Big Sisters..................................   (7,000)
Title V--Incentive Grants.....................................    65,000
    Tribal Youth..............................................  (10,000)
    Gang Prevention...........................................  (25,000)
    Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Program..................  (25,000)
Secure Our Schools Act........................................    15,000
Victims of Child Abuse Programs...............................    15,000
Juvenile Accountability Block Grant...........................    50,000
Project Childsafe.............................................     1,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................   342,739
      Discretionary Grants.--The conference agreement includes 
$106,027,000 for part E programs. Within the amounts provided, 
OJP is expected to review the following proposals, provide 
grants if warranted, and report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on its intentions:


      Gang Prevention.--The conference agreement provides 
$25,000,000, within Title V grants, for OJP to administer a 
gang resistance and education program, known as GREAT. The 
GREAT program is a school-based, law enforcement officer-
instructed classroom curriculum. The program's primary 
objective is prevention and is intended as an immunization 
against delinquency, youth violence, and gang membership. The 
conferees support the work of this program as part of an 
integrated anti-gang strategy of prevention, enforcement, and 
interdiction. These funds shall be available to develop 
comprehensive community strategies to address gangs, including 
anti-gang education programs and coordination with Federal, 
State and local law enforcement.
      Victims of Child Abuse Act.--The conference agreement 
includes $15,000,000 for the various programs authorized under 
the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCA). The conference agreement 
provides the following:
      $3,000,000 for Regional Children's Advocacy Centers, as 
authorized by section 213 of VOCA;
      $9,500,000 for local Children's Advocacy Centers, as 
authorized by section 214 of VOCA;
      $250,000 for the National Children's Advocacy Center in 
Huntsville, AL, to implement a training program;
      $850,000 for the National Children's Alliance for 
technical assistance and training, as authorized by section 
214a of VOCA; and
      $1,400,000 for the National Center for Prosecution of 
Child Abuse for specialized technical assistance and training 
programs to improve the prosecution of child abuse cases, as 
authorized by section 214a of VOCA.

                    PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS BENEFITS

      The conference agreement includes $72,948,000 for this 
account, including $64,000,000 for death benefits, $4,884,000 
for disability benefits, and $4,064,000 for education benefits.

               GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

      The conference agreement includes the following general 
provisions for the Department of Justice:
      Section 101 provides language making up to $60,000 of the 
funds appropriated to the Department of Justice available to 
the Attorney General for reception and representation expenses.
      Section 102 provides language, included in prior 
Appropriations Acts, which prohibits the use of funds to 
perform abortions in the Federal Prison System.
      Section 103 provides language, included in previous 
Appropriations Acts, which prohibits use of the funds in this 
bill to require any person to perform, or facilitate the 
performance of, an abortion.
      Section 104 provides language, included in previous 
Appropriations Acts, which states that nothing in the previous 
section removes the obligation of the Director of the Bureau of 
Prisons to provide escort services to female inmates who seek 
to obtain abortions outside a Federal facility.
      Section 105 provides language allowing the Department of 
Justice, subject to the Committees' reprogramming procedures, 
to transfer up to 5 percent between any appropriation, but 
limits to 10 percent the amount that can be transferred into 
any one appropriation. The provision also prohibits transfers 
of funds from the Federal Prison Systems, Buildings and 
Facilities account unless the President certifies that such a 
transfer is necessary to the national security interests of the 
United States, and such authority shall not be delegated, and 
shall be subject to section 605 of this Act.
      Section 106 provides for the extension of the Personnel 
Management Demonstration Project for the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
      Section 107 provides authority for the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to use confiscated funds 
during undercover operations.
      Section 108 limits the placement of maximum or high 
security prisoners to appropriately secure facilities.
      Section 109 restricts Federal prisoner access to certain 
amenities.
      Section 110 provides for the establishment of an 
investment review board led by the Deputy Attorney General.
      Section 111 enhances the ability of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the Drug Enforcement Administration to 
recruit qualified candidates for critical positions, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      Section 112 provides for the establishment of a 
methamphetamine task force.
      Section 113 contains changes regarding the Prison Rape 
Elimination Act of 2003.
      Section 114 directs the Attorney General to waive the 
matching requirements for the purchase of bulletproof vests. 
The conferees intend for law enforcement agencies to replace 
Zylon-based bulletproof vests with vests of comparable value.

         TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  TRADE AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $44,779,000 for the 
Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) as 
proposed by the House, instead of $40,997,000 as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding China and World Trade 
Organization (WTO) compliance, Chinese intellectual property 
violations, the submission of a spending plan and obligation 
reports, a report on using outside counsel, and international 
standards.
      The conferees note that the fiscal year 2005 Act included 
direction to create the position of Chief Negotiator for 
Intellectual Property Enforcement. The conferees direct the 
USTR to report on the impact of this position no later than 
February 3, 2006.
      The conference agreement includes bill language, and 
adopts by reference report language, as proposed by the Senate, 
regarding negotiations within the WTO.

                     International Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $62,752,000 as proposed 
by the House and Senate for the International Trade Commission 
(ITC). The conferees note that the ITC submitted a revised 
budget estimate subsequent to the President's budget request, 
which included a reduced requirement for fiscal year 2006. The 
conference agreement fully funds this revised budget estimate. 
The conference agreement includes, by reference, language in 
the House report regarding the submission of a spending plan 
and obligation reports.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement includes $406,925,000 in total 
resources for the programs of the International Trade 
Administration (ITA) as proposed by the House, instead of 
$404,625,000 as proposed by the Senate. Of this total, 
$8,000,000 is to be derived from fee collections as proposed by 
the Senate, instead of $13,000,000 as proposed by the House. 
The conference agreement makes funding available for two fiscal 
years.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
designating the amounts available for each unit within ITA. The 
conferees remind ITA that any deviation from the funding 
distribution provided in the bill and report, including 
carryover balances, is subject to reprogramming procedures set 
forth in section 605 of this Act. In addition, ITA is directed 
to submit to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 
60 days after the enactment of this Act, a spending plan for 
all ITA units that incorporates any carryover balances from 
prior fiscal years.
      The conference agreement includes bill language, and 
adopts by reference report language, as proposed by the Senate, 
regarding negotiations within the World Trade Organization.
      Within the funding provided, the conference agreement 
includes $13,000,000 for the National Textile Centers, 
$3,500,000 for Textile/Clothing Technology Corporation, 
$500,000 for the continuation of the international 
competitiveness program, $500,000 for the Textile Marking 
System, and $1,500,000 for Auburn University for advanced 
research and development of novel polymetrics. The conference 
agreement also includes $1,000,000 for the Rural Export 
Initiative.
      The conference agreement includes language designating 
$3,000,000 for the Office of China Compliance, as proposed in 
the House bill, and includes, by reference, language in the 
House report on this office. The conferees direct ITA to submit 
a report to the Committees no later than January 1, 2006, 
describing the resources, accomplishments, and fiscal year 2006 
workplan for the office.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding Capital Security Cost Sharing, 
USIPO offices in Beijing and Moscow, China and Middle East 
Business Centers, establishing programs on intellectual 
property, and documenting cases of intellectual property 
infringement. The conference agreement adopts, by reference, 
language in the Senate report regarding the Appalachian-Turkish 
Trade Project and BISNIS.
      The conferees wish to reaffirm that drawback adjustments 
in antidumping cases are to be granted by the Department of 
Commerce only to the extent necessary to offset import duties 
that are paid on inputs used in the production of merchandise 
sold in the home market. The conferees understand that the 
Department is currently reviewing the existing policy and has 
published a request for comments in the Federal Register. The 
conferees expect the Department to ensure that current rules 
are adhered to until a new policy is established.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement provides a total operating level 
of $76,000,000 for the Bureau of Industry and Security instead 
of $77,000,000 as proposed by the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, House 
report language containing program guidance. The conferees have 
provided $14,767,000 for inspection and other activities 
related to national security as proposed by the House instead 
of $7,200,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                  Economic Development Administration

                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $253,985,000 for 
Economic Development Assistance Programs instead of 
$200,985,000 as proposed by the House and $483,985,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The distribution of these funds is as 
follows: $160,381,000 for Public Works Grants, $27,000,000 for 
Planning Assistance, $13,000,000 for Trade Adjustment 
Assistance, $44,794,000 for Economic Adjustment Grants, 
$8,322,000 for Technical Assistance, and $488,000 for Research. 
The conference agreement does not include $200,000,000 as an 
emergency requirement as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, House 
report language concerning coal industry downturns, assistance 
to applicants for planning, and targeting the most severely 
distressed communities. The conference agreement adopts, by 
reference, Senate report language concerning rightsizing, and 
assisting communities impacted by economic dislocations.
      The conference agreement does not adopt Senate language 
prohibiting the implementation of EDA's interim rule published 
in the Federal Register on August 11, 2005. The conferees 
understand that based on extensive public comment between EDA 
and its stakeholders a compromise has been reached on the 
implementation of these regulations. Based on this compromise, 
the conferees direct EDA to make the following revisions to its 
Interim Final Rule (``IFR'') published on August 11, 2005 (70 
FR 47002) in publishing a Final Rule. All section references 
below refer to the IFR. All capitalized terms have the meanings 
ascribed to them in the IFR.
      District Organizations: Operations.--The conferees direct 
EDA to redraft Section 304.2(d) to clarify that the District 
Organization: (a) shall engage in the full range of economic 
development activities (e.g., coordination, implementation, 
research, advisory functions) necessary to develop, maintain, 
revise and implement its EDA-approved CEDS; and (b) may, in its 
discretion (i.e., shall not be obligated to), outsource these 
activities via a contract for services.
      District Organizations: Formational Requirements.--
      The conferees direct EDA to:
      (a) Redraft Section 304.2(c)(2) to clarify that a 
District Organization's governing body must include at least 
one (1) Private Sector Representative, together with one (1) or 
more representatives of institutions of post-secondary 
education, workforce development groups, labor groups and 
Executive Directors of Chambers of Commerce, all of which must 
comprise in the aggregate a minimum of 35% of the District 
Organization's governing body;
      (b) Redraft Section 304.2(c)(2) to clarify that the 
District Organization's governing body shall also have at least 
a simple majority of its membership who are elected officials 
and/or employees of a general purpose unit of local government 
who have been appointed to represent the government;
      (c) Provide for a non-delegable waiver by the Assistant 
Secretary of the Private Sector Representative requirement upon 
a District Organization's showing of its inability to locate a 
Private Sector Representative to serve on its governing body 
following extensive due diligence; and
      (d) Expand the definition of ``Private Sector 
Representative'' in Section 300.3 to include a designee of any 
senior management official or executive holding a key decision-
making position in any for-profit enterprise.
      District Termination.--The conferees direct EDA to add a 
provision to Section 304.3 to clarify that prior to terminating 
a District's designation (as an Economic Development District) 
based upon failure to execute its CEDS, EDA will: (a) consult 
with the District Organization; and (b) consider all facts and 
circumstances surrounding the District Organization's 
operations. EDA will clarify that it will not terminate a 
District's designation owing to circumstances beyond the 
control of the District Organization (e.g., natural disasters, 
plant closures, overall economic downturn, other sudden and 
severe economic dislocations, or other circumstances).
      Performance Awards.--The conferees direct EDA to redraft 
Section 308.2 to better track Section 215 of PWEDA. 
Specifically, the provision will (a) eliminate the requirement 
that project performance be ``exceptional'' and (b) consistent 
with Section 215 of PWEDA, require that Project performance 
``meets or exceeds'' performance goals. EDA will set forth in 
an annual Federal Funding Opportunity the requirements, 
qualifications, guidelines and procedures for performance 
awards, subject to the availability of funds.
      Investment Rates for Planning Investments.--The conferees 
direct EDA to add a new subsection to Section 301.4 containing 
the following provisions:
      (e) All Planning Investments will receive a minimum 
Investment Rate of 50%;
      (f) Except as otherwise provided in Section 204(c) of 
PWEDA, the maximum allowable Investment Rate for Planning 
Investments shall be the maximum allowable Investment Rate set 
forth in Table 1 of Section 301.4 for the most economically 
distressed county or other equivalent political unit (e.g., 
parish) within the Region;
      (g) The maximum allowable Investment Rate will not exceed 
eighty (80) percent; and
      (h) In compelling circumstances, the Assistant Secretary 
may waive the requirement in paragraph (b) above. The Assistant 
Secretary shall not delegate the authority to grant this 
waiver.
      Maximum Allowable Investment Rates Table 1.--EDA will 
revise Table 1 in Section 301.4 to show that projects located 
in Regions demonstrating a 24-month unemployment rate at least 
one percent (1%) greater than the national average or per 
capita income not more than 80% of the national average shall 
be eligible to receive a maximum allowable Investment Rate of 
50%.
      The conferees are aware of several proposals for economic 
development and urge EDA to consider the proposals as follows:
      The Gateway Economic Development District's business 
creation and expansion program for Broadwater, Lewis and Clark, 
and Meagher Counties, MT; the Mississippi Blues Delta Quarter; 
the Development Projects, Inc. in Dayton, OH, Tech Town; the 
expansion of Penn Eagle Industrial Park, PA; the Ogontz Avenue 
Revitalization Corporation for a neighborhood redevelopment 
project in Philadelphia, PA; Rural Enterprises of Oklahoma to 
expand the International Trade Assistance Center; Oklahoma 
State University Rural Product Manufacturers for the New 
Product Development and Commercialization Center; the Phase III 
implementation of the Manufacturing Training and Technology 
Center clean room at the University of New Mexico; the 
Mescalero Apache Tribe fish hatchery rehabilitation project in 
New Mexico; Jackson State University for the Lynch Street 
Corridor Redevelopment; Prentiss County, MS, for the Wheeler 
Water and Sewer Project; the Lauderdale County, MS, Economic 
Development District; and the Mid-Delta Empowerment Zone 
``Supersite'' Industrial Park; the Rutgers Camden Business 
Incubator in Camden, New Jersey; the Hawaii Capital Cultural 
District on the Island of Oahu; the Brooklyn Goes Global 
program in New York; National Association of Latino Arts and 
Culture in San Antonio, Texas; and the Garde Arts Center in New 
London, Connecticut.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $30,075,000 for 
Salaries and Expenses instead of $26,584,000 as proposed by the 
House and $40,939,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement does not include $10,000,000 as an emergency 
requirement as proposed by the Senate.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

      The conference agreement provides $30,024,000 for the 
Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) as proposed by the 
House instead of $30,727,000 as proposed by the Senate. Should 
additional funds become available, the conferees urge the MBDA 
to provide funds for the expansion of the Asian American and 
Pacific Island Commission.

                Economic and Information Infrastructure

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $80,304,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $81,283,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                          Bureau of the Census

      The conference agreement includes a total operating level 
of $812,237,000 for the Bureau of the Census, as proposed by 
the House, instead of $727,385,000 as proposed by the Senate. 
The conferees direct the Bureau to submit a financial operating 
plan within 60 days of enactment of this Act outlining the 
allocation of funding provided by this Act. The operating plan 
shall address the Bureau's highest priority needs such as Re-
engineered Design Process for the Short-Form Only Census, the 
American Community Survey (ACS), the Master Address File/
Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing 
(MAF/TIGER) system, and necessary furniture and relocation 
costs associated with the Bureau's new facility.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $198,029,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $183,029,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees direct the Bureau to continue to streamline 
and prioritize programs to ensure the highest priority core 
activities are supported. The conferees expect the Bureau to be 
fully reimbursed for any non-core survey conducted for any 
other Federal agency or private organization.
      The conferees expect that key reports on manufacturing, 
general economic and foreign trade statistics will be 
maintained and issued on a timely basis.
      The Bureau is directed to include socks in its quarterly 
Current Industrial Reports on Apparel, and to produce a one-
time annual report for 2005 domestic sock production. The 
conference agreement includes sufficient funding for the 
Manufacturing and Construction Statistics Division for this 
purpose.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, the House 
report language regarding the production of monthly Export-
Import and Trade Balance statistics on a North American 
Industry Classification System basis, and the Advanced 
Technology Trade Imports, Exports, and Net Balance by Country. 
In addition, the conference agreement adopts, by reference, the 
House report language regarding the presentation of the U.S. 
Trade in Advanced Technology Products.
      The conferees direct the Bureau to undertake a study on 
using prisoners' permanent homes of record, as opposed to their 
incarceration sites, when determining their residences. The 
Bureau should report back to the Committees on Appropriations 
on its findings within 90 days of enactment of this Act.

                     PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement provides $614,208,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $544,356,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement includes 
$453,596,000 for expenses related to the 2010 decennial census 
and $160,612,000 for expenses to collect and publish statistics 
for other periodic censuses and programs.
      Within the level of funds provided, the Bureau shall 
fully fund the budget request for ACS and MAF/TIGER in the 
submission of its financial operating plan.
      The conferees encourage the Bureau to continue its 
efforts to minimize the number of personal visits for non-
response follow-up for Census programs. This activity is very 
costly and if response rates through other means can be 
increased, it will provide substantial cost savings in both the 
ongoing ACS and the 2010 Census.
      The conferees expect the ACS methods panel to ensure a 
more comprehensive and streamlined approach to multiple data 
collection techniques and to ensure that any change in the 
language of survey questions will maximize clarity in order to 
elicit correct responses.
      The conferees direct the Bureau to continue to submit 
quarterly reports, in cooperation with the General Services 
Administration (GSA), regarding the expenditure of funds and 
the project planning, design and cost decisions for the 
Suitland Federal Center.
      No funds appropriated to the Bureau shall be available 
for construction and build-out costs that are the 
responsibility of the GSA.
      MAF/TIGER.--The conferees direct the Secretary of 
Commerce to take all available measures to reduce the 
requirement of payment for information currently available from 
certain State and local governments. Further, the conferees 
direct the Secretary of Commerce to work with other Departments 
to gain access to currently available aerial photography. 
Further, the Secretary is directed to utilize global 
positioning system technology and aerial photography to update 
existing information only if these measures are shown to be a 
more cost effective alternative.
      Subgroup Enumeration.--The conferees commend the efforts 
of the Bureau to work with interested parties to ensure that 
necessary measures will be taken to ensure accuracy in 
enumerating Hispanic subgroups.
      The conferees appreciate the efforts of the Bureau to 
consider new options for reporting data reflecting all citizens 
of the United States, including Puerto Rico.
      Bill language is continued, as proposed by the House, 
regarding changes to the race category for collection and 
dissemination purposes.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

      The conference agreement includes a total of $40,068,000 
for the National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration (NTIA), instead of $19,716,000 as proposed by 
the House and $62,255,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $18,068,000 for the 
Salaries and Expenses appropriation of the NTIA, instead of 
$17,716,000 as proposed by the House, and $20,255,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      As in previous years, the conference agreement includes 
language allowing the Secretary of Commerce to collect 
reimbursements from other Federal agencies to offset a portion 
of the cost of coordination of spectrum management, analysis, 
and operations. The conferees expect the NTIA to aggressively 
pursue all opportunities for reimbursement, deobligations, and 
use of non-appropriated resources, to maximize the operating 
level for NTIA's mission purposes. The conferees support the 
requested increases for NTIA and will consider a reprogramming 
of resources should additional funding become available, 
subject to section 605 of this Act.

                 PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES,

                       PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement includes $22,000,000, as 
proposed by the Senate, instead of $2,000,000 as proposed by 
the House.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $1,683,086,000 for the 
United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) for fiscal 
year 2006. This amount is $20,214,000 below the amounts 
proposed by both the Senate and the House due to a notification 
from the USPTO of a revised fee collection estimate.
      In an October 18, 2005 letter to the Committees on 
Appropriations, the USPTO provided re-estimates of fee 
collections and staffing levels for fiscal year 2006. The 
conferees have taken this information into account and have 
provided appropriations commensurate with the USPTO's projected 
fee collections.
      The conferees note their disappointment with the USPTO's 
inability to adhere to Public Law 108-447, which mandated 
staffing levels for patent and trademark examiners. The USPTO 
must continue to focus on hiring additional patent and 
trademark examiners in order to reduce patent and trademark 
pendency. The conference agreement therefore includes language 
designating full-time equivalents, positions, and funding for 
certain functions and requires that any deviation from those 
designations must be in accordance with section 605 of the Act. 
Furthermore, the conferees remind the USPTO that any change 
from the funding distribution provided in the bill and the 
Statement of Managers, including carryover balances, is subject 
to the reprogramming procedures set forth in section 605 of 
this Act.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report regarding the National Inventor's 
Hall of Fame and Inventure Place, the International 
Intellectual Property Institute, the University of Central 
Florida, a training facility, and telework.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the Senate report requiring a report on the USPTO's 
efforts to implement the recommendations of the June 2004 
Inspector General report. The report shall be submitted by 
January 15, 2006.
      The conferees are concerned about protecting the 
intellectual property rights of American inventors and urge the 
USPTO to take immediate steps to prevent pirating and 
counterfeiting by foreign entities. The USPTO shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations on its efforts by March 15, 
2006.
      In addition, USPTO is directed to submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations, not later than three months after 
the enactment of this Act, a spending plan, which incorporates 
any carryover balances from previous fiscal years and any 
changes to the patent or trademark fee structure.

                         Science and Technology

                       Technology Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $6,000,000 for 
necessary expenses of the Under Secretary for Technology Policy 
and the Office of Technology Policy, instead of $6,460,000 as 
proposed by the House. The Senate included funding for these 
expenses under the Departmental Management account.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

      The conference agreement includes $761,767,000 for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), instead 
of $548,744,000 as proposed by the House, and $844,500,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

             SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND SERVICES

      The conference agreement includes $399,869,000 for the 
Scientific and Technical Research and Services (core programs) 
of the NIST, as proposed by the Senate, instead of $397,744,000 
as proposed by the House. Of the funds made available, 
$1,300,000 is provided for transfer to the NIST Working Capital 
Fund.

                         [Dollars in thousands]

                                                    Conference agreement
Electronics and Electrical Engineering........................   $50,171
Manufacturing Engineering.....................................    22,132
Chemical Science and Technology...............................    44,651
Physics.......................................................    42,148
Materials Science and Engineering.............................    33,064
Building and Fire Research....................................    22,030
Computer Science and Applied Mathematics......................    64,572
Standards and Technology Services.............................    15,926
National Research Facilities..................................    37,434
National Quality Program......................................     7,081
Research Support Activities...................................    60,660
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total, STRS.............................................   399,869
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding the Office of Law Enforcement 
Standards. The conference agreement also includes, by 
reference, language in the House report regarding the National 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, and international 
standards negotiations.
      Within the funding for Research Support Activities, the 
conference agreement continues funding of $2,400,000 for a 
telework project and $6,500,000 for a critical infrastructure 
program, both of which received similar funding in previous 
fiscal years. The conference agreement also includes $1,027,000 
for the For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and 
Technology Program, $1,503,000 for the Nanoparticle Risk Impact 
and Assessment Program, and $612,000 for the Operation Safe 
Commerce Program. Finally, the amount for Research Support 
Activities includes $4,864,000 for high priority requested 
program increases, such as the National Nanomanufacturing and 
Nanometrology Facility, biosystems and health, and quantum 
processing initiatives.

                     INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

      The conference agreement includes $186,000,000 for 
Industrial Technology Services, instead of $106,000,000 as 
proposed by the House, and $246,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP).--The 
conference agreement includes $106,000,000 for MEP, as proposed 
by both the House and the Senate. The conference agreement 
adopts, by reference, language in the House report regarding 
the requirements for applicants seeking assistance.
      Advanced Technology Program.--The conference agreement 
includes $80,000,000 for the Advanced Technology Program, 
instead of $140,000,000 as proposed by the Senate and no 
funding as proposed by the House. The conference agreement does 
not adopt bill language providing specific funding for new 
awards as proposed by the Senate.

                  CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES

      The conference agreement includes $175,898,000 for 
construction of research facilities, instead of $45,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $198,631,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $48,898,000 for 
maintenance, repair, construction and major renovations of the 
NIST campuses at Boulder, CO, and Gaithersburg, MD. The 
conferees provide $35,498,000 for safety, capacity, 
maintenance, and major repairs, including not less than 
$5,000,000 for Advanced Measurement Lab maintenance; $9,400,000 
for central utility plant upgrades for the Boulder, CO campus; 
and $4,000,000 for the NIST North relocation and remediation 
project. The balance of funds under this heading is allocated 
to activities specified in section 207.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

      The conference agreement includes a total of 
$3,946,000,000 for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration (NOAA), instead of $3,379,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and $4,476,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      NOAA is the Nation's lead civilian agency in science, 
service, and stewardship for the Earth's oceans and atmosphere. 
The agency's mission was recently highlighted by two major 
national commissions: The Congressionally mandated and 
Presidentially appointed United States Commission on Ocean 
Policy and the privately funded Pew Oceans Commission. Together 
these commissions conducted the most comprehensive reviews of 
ocean policy and programs in over 35 years. The conferees note 
that the chairmen of the two commissions have formed the Joint 
Ocean Commission Initiative to encourage implementation of 
recommendations common to both commission reports. The 
conferees support NOAA's science and education programs, which 
were strongly endorsed in the commission reports. To that end, 
the conference agreement adopts, by reference, language in the 
Senate report regarding a reporting requirement for Ocean 
Commission-endorsed programs.

                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes total direct 
obligations of $2,833,222,000, instead of $2,493,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $3,264,983,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Of the amount provided, $67,000,000 is from balances in 
the account entitled, ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products 
and Research Pertaining to American Fisheries'', and $3,000,000 
is from the Coastal Zone Management Fund. The net appropriation 
from the General Fund is $2,763,222,000.
      Language is included prohibiting any general 
administrative charge against an assigned activity in this Act 
or the accompanying report. Language is also included capping 
the amount provided for corporate services administrative 
support at $179,036,000, and capping the amount available to 
the Department of Commerce Working Capital Fund at $34,000,000.
      The conference agreement stipulates that any deviation 
from the amounts designated for specific activities in the 
report accompanying this Act shall be subject to the procedures 
set forth in section 605 of this Act.
      The conference agreement includes language making 
$2,000,000 available for subsidy costs of certain fisheries 
loans.
      The following table identifies the activities, sub-
activities, and projects funded in this appropriation:


                         NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE

      The conference agreement includes a total of $500,031,000 
for activities of the National Ocean Service (NOS). The 
conference agreement adopts, by reference, language in the 
House report on the hydrographic survey backlog, on Vieques 
Island, PR, and on the strategy for the use of private mapping 
services.
      Within the amount provided for Pribilof Islands Cleanup 
and Economic Development, the conferees agree that no more than 
$2,000,000 shall be available for economic development 
activities. The conferees are encouraged by recent efforts by 
regional ocean observing programs to establish a federation and 
seek competitive funding. The conferees expect that the 
creation of such a program will expedite the integration of 
these regional systems into a system of systems, which is 
fundamental to the broader concept of the Integrated Ocean 
Observing System.
      Of the funds provided for the Coastal Services Center, 
$3,000,000 is provided for Mississippi Digital Earth.
      The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 for a White 
Water to Blue Water Ecosystem initiative in the Gulf of Maine.
      Of the funds provided for the Center for Coastal 
Environmental Health & Biomolecular Research, funding is 
provided for high salinity studies if warranted.

                   NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE

      The conference agreement includes $678,469,000 for the 
operations of the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS).
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding implementation of a West Coast 
in-season harvest data collection system, and a report on 
certain prior year balances.
      The conferees agree that funding provided for Shedd in 
fiscal years 2005 and 2006 shall be for Shedd's Center for the 
Great Lakes, for conservation education activities, including 
exhibits, programming and community-based outreach.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding by-catch reduction, Columbia 
River Hatcheries, and Hawaiian Hatcheries.
      The conference agreement provides for the AK Composite 
Research and Development Program for Alaska Fisheries and 
Marine Mammals. Alaska's commercial fishing industry is a 
primary employer, providing 47 percent of private sector jobs, 
and is second only to the oil industry in generating revenue to 
the State. Two of the Nation's top three fishing ports, in 
terms of highest dollar value for commercial landings, are in 
Alaska. In 2003, Dutch Harbor-Unalaska moved the most fish of 
any port--908.7 million pounds for a total dollar value of 
$156,900,000. Kodiak, Alaska, was not far behind generating 
$81,500,000 for 262.9 million pounds of fish landed.
      The amount and dollar value of fishery resources taken 
from the waters off Alaska are only half the story. The 
science, research, and management of these living marine 
resources provide for sustainable and abundance-based harvests. 
The North Pacific has no fisheries listed as endangered, in 
part due to the constant monitoring and research that this 
funding provides. Alaska's fisheries management requires data 
and research on over 900,000 square miles of ocean within the 
Exclusive Economic Zone off Alaska's coast. These funds are 
critical to provide data collection, analysis and further 
resource development of these fisheries in order to provide 
continued economic opportunity for the State of Alaska and its 
numerous coastal communities. NOAA is directed to provide the 
Committees with a spending plan for the funds provided under 
the AK Composite Research and Development Program no later than 
30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                    OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH

      The conference agreement includes $373,313,000 for the 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) line office.
      Within the amount provided for Climate Observations and 
Services, the conference agreement includes $68,500,000 for the 
Climate and Global Change program.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report on planning activities related to the 
International Polar Year.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding the establishment of a new joint 
institute and the National Sea Grant Program.
      The conference agreement includes funding for Urbanet, a 
partnership with an existing national network of weather 
stations that is centrally managed with uniform 
instrumentation, in order to validate the benefits of 
integrating such technologies into weather and all hazards 
management.
      Of the funds made available for the National Undersea 
Research Program (NURP), $1,125,000 is provided for the NURP 
Center in Alaska and $3,125,000 is provided for the NURP Center 
in Hawaii.
      Of the funds made available for Arctic Research under the 
``Ocean, Coastal, and Great Lakes'' sub-heading, $2,000,000 is 
provided for the International Arctic Research Center.

                        NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

      The conference agreement includes $745,250,000 for the 
operations of the National Weather Service (NWS).
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding weather radio coverage in certain 
locations, a tsunami warning network in the Caribbean/Gulf of 
Mexico, and air quality forecasting in the Shenandoah Valley.
      The conference agreement incorporates, by reference, 
language in the Senate report regarding the Susquehanna Flood 
Forecast and Warning System, tsunami modeling, and the weather 
radar and office in Williston, ND.
      The conferees remain concerned about the expenditure of 
funds for single purpose observing systems and encourage NOAA 
to maximize efficiencies by developing multi-purpose observing 
systems.
      The conference agreement provides $6,100,000 to 
strengthen the U.S. Tsunami Warning Network, including 
$1,000,000 for re-engineering and design of tsunami detection 
buoys at the National Data Buoy Center, $500,000 for next 
generation buoy research, $500,000 for tsunami warning sirens 
in the State of Washington and $500,000 for tsunami-readiness 
efforts, including warning sirens in the State of Oregon, 
focused on high-risk communities such as Seaside, OR.
      Of the amounts made available for the National Data Buoy 
Center, funding is included for the operation and maintenance 
of the Alaskan buoys, the hurricane buoys, and the conversion 
of weather buoys.
      The conference agreement provides an increase of not less 
than $500,000 for the National Hurricane Center for four new 
hurricane forecasters.
      The conferees direct that no funds shall be used to 
implement a plan to consolidate, regionalize, or reduce service 
hours at weather service forecast offices.

    NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITE, DATA, AND INFORMATION SERVICE

      The conference agreement includes $179,337,000 for the 
operational and research and development programs of the 
National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service 
(NESDIS).
      Of the $2,800,000 provided for the National Climatic Data 
Center, $2,500,000 is to continue the GOES Data Archive Project 
and $300,000 is to develop a detailed strategy for prototyping 
data grids.

                            PROGRAM SUPPORT

      The conference agreement includes $356,422,000 for 
Program Support.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding a spending plan for all NOAA 
education programs.
      The conference agreement includes funding for the Office 
of General Counsel in the amount provided for Corporate 
Services.
      The conferees are concerned that funding provided to 
address NOAA's maintenance and facilities needs in recent years 
has been redirected toward the hiring of staff. Many of NOAA's 
facilities are in urgent need of maintenance and repair. The 
conference agreement provides funds to address these needs. 
NOAA is directed to provide the Committees with a plan for this 
funding within 90 days of enactment of this Act.
      The conference agreement incorporates, by reference, 
language in the Senate report regarding marine operations and 
maintenance.

               PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement includes $1,124,278,000 under 
this heading, instead of $936,000,000 as proposed by the House 
and $1,195,017,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees remain concerned about the safety of NOAA 
employees at the Southwest Fisheries Science Center, and 
language is included providing the Secretary of Commerce the 
option to enter into negotiations with the University of 
California for a long-term lease. Any construction, however, 
will require future appropriation of funds. The conferees 
emphasize that the Administration should assess this safety 
issue and should include a proposal in a formal budget request, 
if warranted. No funds are provided in this Act for the design 
or construction of a new facility.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding radiosonde replacement, a report 
on the cost and risk implications of delays in the development 
of the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental 
Satellite System (NPOESS), the National Research Council report 
on Earth Science and Applications from Space, and the Coastal 
and Estuarine Land Conservation Program. The conference 
agreement includes, by reference, language included in the 
Senate report regarding the Coastal and Estuarine Land 
Protection program, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 
NOAA ships, and NOAA aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles.
      Of the amounts provided for small boats, funding is 
included to procure two 51-foot highly stable craft for the 
Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary.
      The conference agreement includes language regarding the 
incremental construction of the NOAA Pacific Regional Center.
      The following distribution reflects the activities funded 
within this account:


                  PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY FUND

      The conference agreement provides $67,500,000 for Pacific 
Coastal Salmon Recovery, instead of $50,000,000 as proposed by 
the House and $90,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Funds provided under this heading shall be allocated as 
follows: $22,000,000 for Alaska; $6,500,000 for California; 
$1,250,000 for Columbia River Tribes; $2,250,000 for Idaho; 
$6,500,000 for Oregon; $4,000,000 for Pacific Coast Tribes; and 
$25,000,000 for Washington.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report on program performance measurement.
      Of the amounts provided to the State of Alaska, the 
conferees agree to the following allocation: $3,500,000 is for 
the Arctic Yukon-Kuskokwim Sustainable Salmon initiative; 
$1,000,000 is for the Cook Inlet Fishing Community Assistance 
Program; $500,000 is for the Yukon River Drainage Association; 
$500,000 is for Coffman Cove king salmon; $250,000 is for the 
State of Alaska to participate in discussions regarding the 
Columbia River hydro-system and for fisheries revitalization; 
$100,000 is for the United Fishermen of Alaska's subsistence 
program; $2,500,000 is to restore salmon fisheries in Anchorage 
at Ship Creek, Chester Creek, and Campbell Creek, including 
habitat restoration and facilities; $500,000 is for Alaska 
Village Initiatives to enhance salmon stocks; $700,000 is for 
Bristol Bay Science and Research Institute; $1,000,000 is for 
the Alaska Fisheries Development Foundation; $1,500,000 is for 
the State of Alaska for fisheries monitoring; $1,500,000 is for 
the Alaska SeaLife Center to restore salmon runs in 
Resurrection Bay; $3,000,000 is for the Southeast 
Revitalization Association for implementation of its fleet 
stabilization program; and $750,000 is for the Kenai River.
      Of the amounts provided to the State of Washington, 
$2,500,000 is for the Washington State Department of Natural 
Resources and other State and Federal agencies for purposes of 
implementing the State of Washington's Forest and Fish report, 
and $2,400,000 is designated for purchasing two automated 
marking trailers and four manual marking trailers. In addition, 
$490,000 is designated for the mass marking of Puget Sound 
tribal fish by the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, 
and $350,000 is designated for the mass marking of fall chinook 
at Hood Canal and Willapa Bay hatchery facilities operated by 
the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. In addition, 
$1,000,000 is designated for the Washington State Pacific Coast 
Tribes.
      Of the amounts provided to the State of Oregon, 
$1,100,000 is designated for conservation of mass marking at 
Columbia River hatcheries and $1,040,000 is for the purchase of 
one mass marking trailer.

                      COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes language allowing the 
transfer of up to $3,000,000 to the ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'' account for the costs of implementing the Coastal 
Zone Management Act, as proposed by the House and Senate.

                   FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT

      The conference agreement includes language proposed by 
the Senate providing $287,000 to subsidize up to $5,000,000 for 
Individual Fishing Quota loans and up to $59,000,000 for 
fishing capacity reduction loans, of which $19,000,000 may be 
used for direct loans to the United States menhaden fishery.

                                 Other

                        Departmental Management

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $47,466,000 for this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $44,605,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement does not 
provide funding for the Technology Administration within this 
account as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
included in the House report regarding office relocations.
      Legislative Affairs Function.--The conference agreement 
provides 11 full-time equivalents and $1,490,000 for the 
legislative affairs function, instead of 12 full-time 
equivalents and $1,621,000 as proposed by the House, and 9 
full-time equivalents and $1,181,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      Security Enhancements.--The conferees are aware that the 
Department of Commerce is planning security improvements at the 
Boulder, CO, facility and directs the Department to consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations prior to proceeding. No 
funding shall be redirected from other proposed construction 
projects at Boulder for this purpose.
      Intellectual Property.--The conferees are aware that 
$2,000,000 was provided in fiscal year 2005 for the National 
Intellectual Property Law Enforcement Coordination Counsel 
(NIPLECC). The conferees continue to support that action and 
are aware that funding remains available through fiscal year 
2006 to meet NIPLECC's critical operations.
      Commerce Information Technology Solutions (COMMITS).--The 
conferees note that concerns have been raised about the 
fairness of the ``bid down'' approach of the COMMITS 
acquisition vehicle, and agree that this matter warrants 
further review. The conferees therefore direct the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO) to undertake a review of this 
acquisition vehicle, with particular emphasis on a provision of 
the vehicle's current guidelines that permit incumbent 
contractors who have graduated from a particular size category 
of small business to bid against smaller firms that still 
qualify for the smaller category of classification. The GAO's 
review should be completed within 180 days of enactment of this 
Act. The conferees direct that the Secretary of Commerce ensure 
that appropriate procedures are in place so that awards made to 
incumbent contractors are in the best interest of, and 
constitute the best value for, the government.

               UNITED STATES TRAVEL AND TOURISM PROMOTION

      The conference agreement provides $4,000,000 for this 
account instead of no funding as proposed by the House and 
$5,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement includes $22,758,000 for the 
Inspector General for fiscal year 2006, as proposed by both the 
House and the Senate.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes the following general 
provisions for the Department of Commerce:
      Section 201 making Department of Commerce funds available 
for advanced payments only upon certification of officials 
designated by the Secretary that such payments are considered 
to be in the public interest.
      Section 202 making appropriations for the Department for 
Salaries and Expenses available for hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and for services, uniforms and allowances as 
authorized by law.
      Section 203 providing the authority to transfer funds 
between Department of Commerce appropriation accounts and 
requiring notification to the Committees of certain actions.
      Section 204 providing that any costs incurred by the 
Department in response to funding reductions shall be absorbed 
within total budgetary resources available.
      Section 205 regarding the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee 
Program.
      Section 206 regarding certain trademarks.
      Section 207 designating funds for certain projects.
      Section 208 designating amounts available in the 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining 
to American Fisheries'' fund.
      Section 209 regarding a transfer of funds from NOAA to 
NASA for certain purposes.

                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

      The conference agreement includes $5,564,000 for the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) in the Executive 
Office of the President, as proposed by both the House and the 
Senate. The conference agreement includes, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding the improvement of 
coordination among science agencies on education programs. The 
conferees urge the OSTP to ensure that Executive branch policy 
makers and budget officials understand the impact of stagnation 
in science and technology. In this regard, the OSTP shall 
submit a report to the Committees by March 1, 2006, including 
recommendations for improving the effectiveness and 
coordination of science education programs across all agencies 
funded under this Act.
      The conferees encourage the OSTP to assess future 
opportunities for improving merit-based, peer-reviewed basic 
science to support food and agriculture research and to report 
their findings to the Committees.
      The conferees are aware of concerns that insufficient 
attention and study has been directed toward the ethical 
dimensions of nanotechnology research. The conferees direct the 
OSTP to conduct such an analysis and report to the Committees 
no later than March 31, 2006, on ethical questions raised by 
the National Nanotechnology Initiative, including recommended 
safeguards, and methods of monitoring and tracking potential 
uses of nanotechnology. The conferees encourage the OSTP to use 
external expertise in compiling this report. The conferees 
direct OSTP to work with agencies receiving funds under this 
Act for the National Nanotechnology Initiative to set aside a 
portion of the funding to analyze and report on the ethical 
issues generated from the research and development of 
nanotechnology. The conferees expect OSTP to follow the pattern 
established for the human genome project, allocating three 
percent of funding to ethical, legal and social issues 
research.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

      The conference agreement provides $16,456,800,000 for the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), instead 
of $16,471,050,000 as proposed by the House and $16,396,400,000 
as proposed by the Senate.
      All changes to the budget request are net of NASA's 
budget amendment that was submitted to the Congress after both 
the House and Senate had passed their respective bills, and 
hence are not included in the statement of the managers for the 
Science, Aeronautics and Exploration account or the Exploration 
Capabilities account.
      The conferees are extremely disappointed in the lack of 
detail provided in the fiscal year 2006 congressional budget 
justification. NASA is reminded that the primary purpose of 
budget justifications is to provide needed information to the 
Committees on Appropriations, and therefore must be submitted 
in a format with the necessary level of detail required by the 
Committees so that funding requests may be analyzed. In order 
for the budget justifications to be of value to the Committees, 
NASA shall present the fiscal year 2007 budget justification 
with detailed information on the prior year, current year, and 
requested funding levels for each program, project or activity 
funded within each division and directorate in each account, 
and provide detailed information on all proposed changes being 
requested.
      The conferees do not agree to the continuation of the 
transfer authority in the House bill. However, to the extent 
necessary, NASA should use the flexibility in spending 
authority within each of its accounts to accommodate any 
funding level adjustments after first consulting with the 
Committees on Appropriations.
      For fiscal year 2006 and thereafter, the conferees direct 
NASA to include the out-year budget impacts in all 
reprogramming requests. In addition, future reprogramming 
requests/operating plans should include a separate accounting 
of all program/mission impacts on estimated carryover funds. 
NASA is further directed to incorporate independent cost 
verification as part of the process by which contracts are 
selected for contracts in excess of $100,000,000. This process 
should be a valuable guide for assessing when costs have 
exceeded expectations and will help identify projects for 
termination.
      As NASA begins the development of programs to return to 
the Moon, it is critical that it be able to control costs for 
these, and other, activities. For this purpose, NASA is 
directed to notify the Committees on Appropriations 30 days 
prior to allocating funds, modifying contracts, or extending 
existing contracts that are in excess of 15 percent of the 
original contract value at the program level. Within this 
notification, NASA shall justify the additional expenditure of 
funds. NASA shall also evaluate the new cost estimates and 
verify to the Committees on Appropriations the ability to 
complete the contract under the new funding profile. Finally, 
NASA shall identify the source of any required additional funds 
to cover the overrun.
      The conferees note that NASA has, in the past few months, 
used its buyout authority to promote voluntary separations as a 
first attempt at reshaping its workforce. The conferees believe 
that at this early stage, NASA has been able to reshape its 
workforce without losing critical workforce skills. The 
conferees direct that NASA shall not go beyond using voluntary 
buyout authority until it has developed a comprehensive 
coordinated restructuring plan and implementation roadmap, and 
has provided a report to the Congress detailing the steps that 
will be taken in reshaping the agency's human and physical 
capital assets. In addition, NASA must notify the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations in advance of any planned 
reduction in force pursuant to section 605 reprogramming 
requirements.
      With respect to the agency's workforce, the conferees 
note the impressive core competencies that exist at NASA's 
field centers, and direct the agency to fully utilize the 
competencies that reside at these field centers. NASA's field 
centers are an asset, and not a liability, for our nation. The 
conferees believe that NASA currently has, and must maintain, 
world-class scientists and engineers at its field centers. 
These scientists and engineers must continue to work at the 
cutting-edge of their disciplines so that they can remain 
world-class.
      The conferees are supportive of NASA's new vision and 
mission for space exploration and the conference agreement 
includes funds for the Administration's priorities for these 
activities. However, the conferees remain concerned about the 
need to maintain the nation's leadership in science and 
technology. To this end, the conferees have not agreed to the 
Administration's proposed reductions to the aeronautics 
research program or science programs, and have partially 
restored funding to these core programs. However, given the 
serious nature of the budget deficit facing the nation, the 
conferees were forced to make a number of difficult choices in 
allocating the scarce resources available to NASA. The 
conference agreement includes a budget that supports both the 
new vision and NASA's other core functions.
      The conferees have agreed to provide funds to the Crew 
Exploration Vehicle (CEV) and Crew Launch Vehicle (CLV) 
according to the Exploration Systems Architecture study, but 
are concerned about the impact the accelerated schedules for 
the CEV and CLV will have within the agency. NASA is directed 
to find an approach that will, to the maximum extent possible, 
mitigate the impacts within NASA of this planned redirection of 
funding in fiscal year 2006 and beyond for the CEV and CLV.
      NASA possesses a unique capability among Federal 
government agencies in that it has its own television station. 
This station is carried nationally on cable and satellite 
television stations. The conferees note that this asset is 
significantly underutilized and could be used as a centerpiece 
in helping to excite the next generation of explorers in 
science. NASA has made numerous important discoveries in recent 
years as a result of such initiatives as the Hubble Space 
Telescope, the Mars Rovers, and the Chandra Space telescope to 
mention a few. NASA must take advantage of its television 
resources to inform and excite the public about these 
discoveries. NASA Television has, for the most part, been used 
almost exclusively as an internal communications medium. NASA 
must make more effective use of this capability if NASA is to 
be permitted to retain it. NASA is directed to develop an 
integrated communications plan for NASA Television in 
consultation with outside experts. This plan should have a 
major focus on educating and exciting the next generation of 
explorers. This plan is to be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations no later than April 15, 2006.

                  SCIENCE, AERONAUTICS AND EXPLORATION

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $9,761,400,000 for 
Science, Aeronautics and Exploration instead of $9,725,750,000 
as proposed by the House and $9,761,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. Changes to the budget request include increases of 
$10,000,000 for the Space Interferometry Mission, $30,000,000 
for the Glory Mission, $60,000,000 for the Aeronautics Research 
program of which $25,000,000 is for hypersonic research, 
$10,000,000 for the Institute for Scientific Research, 
$20,000,000 for the National Center for Advanced Manufacturing, 
$5,000,000 for the Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle, $15,000,000 for 
the Propulsion Research Laboratory, $15,000,000 for an earth 
science competitive grant program, $20,000,000 for alternative 
small spacecraft technologies, $50,000,000 for the Hubble 
Telescope servicing mission, $8,200,000 for EPSCoR, $12,200,000 
for the Space Grant program, $5,000,000 for Living With a Star 
program, and $280,000,000 for Congressionally directed 
priorities. Decreases to the budget request include $25,000,000 
for Exploration Systems R&T, $25,000,000 for Discovery 
missions, $25,000,000 for Human Systems R&T, $26,000,000 for 
corporate G&A, $34,000,000 for Centennial Challenges, 
$15,000,000 for optical communications, $200,000,000 for 
Project Prometheus, and $90,000,000 for a general reduction.
      The conferees agree to the following:
      1. The conference agreement adopts, by reference, the 
House report language accompanying H.R. 2862 with respect to 
earth-orbit crossing asteroids and the Senate report language 
with respect to the National Academy of Sciences Decadal 
Survey, EOSDIS, Centennial Challenges, and alternative small 
spacecraft technologies. In addition, both the House and Senate 
urge NASA to continue its technology and education 
collaboration with the American Museum of Natural History.
      2. The conference agreement provides an increase of 
$50,000,000 above the budget request for the Hubble Space 
Telescope for a total of $271,000,000. The conferees have 
provided this increase to continue planning, preparation and 
engineering activities for the SM-4 servicing mission pending a 
final decision on the use of the space shuttle by the 
Administrator. The conferees reiterate their position that the 
Hubble Space Telescope has been one of NASA's most successful 
programs and remains one of the top priorities for the nation's 
space program. The conferees direct the Administrator to 
continue to take all appropriate steps to ensure Hubble's 
continued safe operations.
      3. The conferees support the Space Interferometry Mission 
(SIM) and have provided an additional $10,000,000 over the 
budget request for this mission, for a total program level of 
$119,000,000. NASA's search for planets and life beyond our 
solar system is having increasing and dramatic success with 
more than 150 planets now discovered. SIM is expected to 
examine 2000-3000 stars for planetary systems to fulfill a 
critical step in the search for Earth-like planets. The 
conferees have provided these additional funds to ensure that 
SIM's important mission remains on schedule. In addition, the 
conferees expect that NASA will continue funding for the 
Terrestrial Planet Finder.
      4. A key element of the nation's vision for space 
exploration is NASA's popular and scientifically important Mars 
exploration program. The Mars Exploration Rovers Spirit and 
Opportunity have captured the world's imagination as indicated 
by the more than 10 billion hits on NASA's Mars website. 
Therefore, the conference agreement provides $680,000,000 for 
the Mars program. The conferees urge NASA to continue these 
important programs within the context of the President's vision 
for space exploration.
      5. The conference agreement provides $371,600,000 for the 
James Webb Space Telescope, the same as the budget request.
      6. The conferees fully support the emphasis being placed 
on the development of a new Crew Launch Vehicle, understanding 
that this is a critical element of the Exploration Systems 
Architecture. Additional risk reduction activities are required 
to help ensure the success of this program and therefore the 
conference agreement provides an additional $20,000,000 to the 
funds provided to the National Center for Advanced 
Manufacturing for work to include, but not limited to, the 
development of a structural test article, upperstage mass 
simulator, main propulsion test article and mated vehicle 
ground vibration test article to support upperstage 
development; and prototype and test advanced long-term 
cryogenic storage tanks.
      7. The conference agreement includes an additional 
$15,000,000 to the Propulsion Research Laboratory to conduct 
research and development in support of the Constellation 
program, including the characterization of the altitude start 
capability of the Space Shuttle main engine and research in 
nuclear systems and high energy electric propulsion.
      8. The conferees note that the Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle 
is critical to NASA's exploration plans, and that human 
exploration beyond low-Earth orbit is not achievable without an 
operational capability. The conferees strongly urge NASA to 
initiate work on critical systems earlier than is currently 
planned and provide an additional $5,000,000 to begin 
development and planning for the heavy lift vehicle proposed in 
the Exploration Systems Architecture. The conferees also direct 
NASA to submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
within 120 days of enactment of this Act with a detailed plan 
for ensuring that such a capability will be available for 
missions as soon as possible.
      9. The conference agreement provides $60,000,000 above 
the budget request for the Aeronautics Research program for a 
total program level of $912,300,000, of which $25,000,000 is 
for the continuation of hypersonics research. The conferees 
direct that within 60 days of enactment of this Act NASA shall 
provide to the Committees on Appropriations and the legislative 
committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate a plan for 
how it intends to allocate aeronautics research funds for 
fiscal year 2006. Included in this plan should be a definition 
of work that enhances United States competitiveness.
      10. The conferees note that the National Academy of 
Sciences, Solar System Exploration Decadal Survey of planetary 
scientists concluded that the highest priority of the 
scientific community is an orbiter/lander mission to Jupiter's 
moon Europa. The Administration supported just such a mission, 
and had proposed that the first or second mission of the 
Prometheus Nuclear Systems and Technology Program would be the 
Jupiter Icy Moons Mission (JIMO). NASA no longer plans a JIMO 
mission for Project Prometheus because of funding and technical 
considerations, and because the NASA Administrator has 
determined that funding is needed to implement the President's 
vision for space exploration. Recognizing that these deep space 
missions usually take a decade to complete from design to 
orbit, the conferees support NASA moving forward with a 
conventionally powered mission to Jupiter as soon as possible. 
Therefore, the conferees direct NASA to begin planning for this 
mission and to incorporate a new start for a non-nuclear Europa 
mission as part of its fiscal year 2007 budget request.
      11. The conferees have modified Senate language regarding 
the Discovery program. The conferees set a cap of $425,000,000 
on all future Discovery missions beginning with the next 
announcement of opportunity. In addition, the conferees direct 
NASA to report back to the Committees on Appropriations on all 
future awards under this program and provide detailed 
information as to the cost of spacecraft, scientific 
instruments, launch vehicles, civil service, flight readiness, 
launch integration and operations, agency reviews and deep 
space network costs.
      12. The conference agreement provides a total of 
$12,500,000 for NASA's Experimental Program to Stimulate 
Competitive Research. Additionally, the conferees recommend a 
total of $30,200,000 for the National Space Grant College and 
Fellowship Program. This amount will fund 40 grantees at 
$611,250 each and 12 grantees at $425,000. The conferees expect 
NASA to follow this distribution.
      13. The conference agreement provides an increase of 
$15,000,000 above the budget request for the Earth Science 
Applications program. This funding increase will be used to 
support competitively selected projects. These projects will 
integrate the results of NASA's earth observing systems and 
earth system models (using observations and predictions) into 
decision support tools to serve applications of national 
priority including, but not limited to: homeland security, 
coastal management, agricultural efficiency, and disaster 
management.
      14. The conference agreement provides $103,600,000 for 
NASA's Solar Terrestrial Probes program. The conferees urge 
NASA to move forward with full-scale development of the 
magnetospheric multiscale mission.
      15. The conference agreement provides $5,000,000 above 
the budget request for Living With a Star program for a total 
program level of $239,000,000 of which $10,000,000 shall be 
allocated to the APL Program Office for direct program 
management of certain activities, including the Geospace 
Radiation Belt program, the Geospace Ionispheric-Therospheric 
program, the Solar Sentinels program and the Solar Probe 
Advanced Technology program. The conferees remain concerned 
about the Solar Dynamic Observatory's cost growth over time and 
expect NASA to take steps to manage it so as not to adversely 
impact future launch schedules of Geospace and Solar Sentinels.
      16. Within the funds provided for non-programmatic 
construction of facilities, $10,000,000 is directed to the 
Institute for Scientific Research, Inc. for the continued 
construction of the research facility.
      17. The conference agreement provides the budget request 
of $30,900,000 for continued operation of the Independent 
Verification and Validation Center in Fairmont, WV.
      18. The conferees direct, to the extent possible, that 
education funds within this account address the education needs 
of women, minorities, and other historically underrepresented 
groups.
      19. The conferees are concerned that NASA has halted 
environmental clean-up of the test reactor facility at NASA 
Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, OH. NASA has since learned that 
low levels of radioactive contamination have been found on and 
off site at this Station, but continues to delay completion of 
the decommissioning of the nuclear reactor. As a result, NASA 
is urged to reconsider its premature termination of clean-up 
contracts and sub-contracts. Further, the agency should report 
back to the Committees on Appropriations by March 30, 2006, on 
how it plans to address this issue, including the associated 
costs of such plan.
      20. The conferees note that over the past several years 
the technological maturity of U.S. manufactured unmanned aerial 
vehicles (UAVs) has increased substantially. The conferees 
believe UAVs could offer NASA a potentially low cost 
alternative to traditional earth science research missions, 
thereby opening up new opportunities for research that do not 
currently exist, and possible improvements in weather and 
severe storm prediction capabilities. Therefore, the conferees 
direct the NASA Administrator, in consultation with National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), to report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the potential use of UAVs to 
operate in the near space environment for a variety of science 
and operational missions. The report should be completed no 
later than March 30, 2006.
      21. The conferees support NASA's efforts to realign the 
Aeronautics program by redirecting resources into high-priority 
activities in support of core competencies in supersonic, 
subsonic, and hypersonic flight. The conferees urge NASA, as 
part of this realignment, to ensure a smooth transition of data 
for certification and policy recommendations from NASA's 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in the National Airspace project to 
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), so that this 
knowledge is fully available to the FAA for use in the 
certification process. The conferees direct NASA to provide a 
report on the findings of the UAVs in the National Air Space 
project to the FAA no later than February 15, 2006, with a copy 
of this report to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations.
      22. Funding was proposed in the budget requests for NASA, 
the Department of the Interior's United States Geological 
Survey, and the NOAA for a Landsat Data Continuity Mission. The 
Administration proposed a Landsat-type instrument to be flown 
on a NOAA spacecraft. The conferees now understand that such a 
mission is no longer feasible for both funding and technical 
reasons. The conferees direct the above agencies, in 
consultation with the Office of Science and Technology Policy, 
to report back to the Committees on Appropriations within 120 
days of enactment of this Act with an appropriate alternative 
for a Landsat mission.
      23. With minor technical changes, the conferees have 
agreed to language included in the House report requiring the 
President to develop a National Aeronautics Policy no later 
than one year from the date of enactment of this Act. The lack 
of support and clear direction for NASA's Aeronautics Research 
program is directly related to the fact that there is no clear 
policy direction concerning the government's role in the civil 
aviation industry. The conferees are extremely concerned about 
the direction NASA has taken in downsizing and restructuring 
its Aeronautics Research program. While the United States is 
reducing its Federal investment in aeronautics research, our 
competitors are increasing their aeronautics research and 
development budgets and making competitiveness their number one 
priority. While the conferees support the development of a 
national aeronautics policy, such a policy should be guided by 
the data and policy guidance contained in the recently 
published National Institute of Aerospace Report, ``Responding 
to the Call: Aviation Plan for American Leadership''.
      24. With the cancellation of the Mars Telecommunications 
Orbiter, the conferees are concerned about how the requirements 
that led to the need for this mission will be met, especially 
optical communications. NASA is directed to provide a report no 
later than March 1, 2006, on these requirements, how it intends 
to meet these requirements and what the impact on the overall 
Mars exploration programmatic risk will be.
      25. NASA is directed to provide a ten-year funding plan 
for the Deep Space Network upgrades and maintenance as part of 
the fiscal year 2007 budget request.
      26. The conferees agree that NASA should continue to work 
toward an affordable, universal and autonomous capability for 
rendezvous and docking in the vicinity of the Earth, the Moon, 
and Mars. Upon completion of the DART review board report, the 
conferees direct NASA, within 30 days of delivery of the board 
report, to report to the Committees on Appropriations with its 
future plans for autonomous, safe proximity operations and 
docking in space.
      The conference agreement provides funds for the following 
congressional priorities. None of these funds shall be for non-
NASA construction projects:
      $3,000,000 MSFC Simulation Based Acquisition for Manned 
Space Flight Vehicle Design and Testing;
      $4,000,000 Satellite Test Equivalence Principal (STEP);
      $1,500,000 Alan Shepard Discovery Center at the McAuliffe 
Planetarium, equipment and exhibits;
      $1,000,000 Ott Planetarium, education programs;
      $1,000,000 Stars program at Rhoads College, TN;
      $5,000,000 to be transferred to the Air Force Research 
Laboratory for joint NASA-AFRL research in advanced air traffic 
management including the development of new visualization and 
simulation tools;
      $2,000,000 Institute for the Application of Geospatial 
Technology at Cayuga Community College, Inc.;
      $1,000,000 University of South Alabama for high strength 
composite research;
      $1,000,000 collaborative research on innovative carbon 
nanotechnology between Houston Advanced Research Center and 
Rice University;
      $750,000 Remote Sensing Initiative at California State 
University, Fullerton;
      $700,000 space exploration education program at the 
McLean VA based Total Learning Research Institute;
      $2,000,000 George Mason University's Center for Earth 
Observing Research;
      $4,000,000 cooperative partnership between GSFC and 
Lehigh University for research and development of 
nanomaterials;
      $500,000 cooperative education programs between Griffith 
Observatory and NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory;
      $300,000 education programs at St. Thomas University;
      $1,150,000 Southeast Missouri State University, Educator 
Resource Center;
      $1,000,000 Environmental Tectonics Corporation, flight 
simulator pilot training human factors validation;
      $500,000 National Federation of the Blind, science 
education programs for blind youth;
      $3,000,000 Virginia Institute for Performance and 
Engineering;
      $1,000,000 Centenary College NJ, innovative teacher 
training initiative;
      $2,500,000 NASA-Illinois Technology Commercialization 
Center at DuPage Research Park;
      $1,000,000 Northwestern University Institute for 
Proteomics and Nanobiotechnology;
      $2,000,000 Pacific Northwest Regional Collaboratory WA, 
earth science applications;
      $4,000,000 Ultra Efficient Engine Technology (UEET);
      $1,000,000 Garrett Morgan Commercialization Initiative;
      $2,000,000 Advanced Virtual Engine Test Cell, 
Springfield, OH;
      $750,000 Westminster College's Natural Sciences and 
Technology Center MO, education programs;
      $1,000,000 Applied Polymer Technology Extension 
Consortium, LA;
      $200,000 North Shore Aerospace Initiative IL;
      $750,000 Museum of Science and Industry's Human 
Exploration program, Henry Crown Space Center, IL;
      $200,000 Adler Planetarium education programs;
      $500,000 Challenge Learning Center, Olean, NY;
      $500,000 Central Illinois Regional Museum for digital 
dome planetarium equipment;
      $4,000,000 Loma Linda University space radiation 
research;
      $1,000,000 University of Redlands academic programs;
      $1,000,000 Oklahoma Space Technology Program;
      $1,000,000 Centenary College LA, technology upgrades;
      $1,000,000 Plattsburg Aeronautical Institute NY;
      $1,000,000 Texas Tech University TX, development and 
enhancement of space flight technologies;
      $500,000 University of Idaho ID, deep submicron radiation 
hard electronics;
      $2,350,000 Jason Foundation Project;
      $500,000 Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University AZ, 
education programs;
      $1,000,000 Burlington Community College Integrated 
Education Center NJ, equipment;
      $2,000,000 Idaho National Laboratory ID, performance, 
safety, and mission success tools;
      $1,400,000 Indiana University solar proton radiation 
research;
      $2,000,000 Pisgah Astronomical Research Center NC, 
equipment and exhibits;
      $1,500,000 Regional Application Center for the Northeast;
      $4,000,000 Space Alliance Technology Outreach Program;
      $1,900,000 KSC Space Life Sciences Laboratory and Florida 
Institute of Technology FL, research program;
      $2,000,000 University of South Florida National Center 
for Roadway Friction;
      $3,000,000 Florida State University advanced turbines 
research;
      $1,000,000 Challenger Learning Center of Southwestern 
Connecticut;
      $2,000,000 for the development and optimization of a low-
cost repairable ceramic (CeramARC) for high temperature 
applications such as leading edges;
      $2,000,000 for the NASA In-Space Propulsion program for 
High-power Pulsed Inductive Thruster technology research, 
utilizing a vector inversion pulsed generator to pre-ionize the 
propellant at an exceptionally high frequency;
      $1,000,000 for on-going activities of the Goddard 
Institute for Systems, Software, and Technology Research, 
including model-based mission design tools and advanced sensors 
for UAVs;
      $5,000,000 to establish a software research program at 
NASA's Independent Verification & Validation Facility to 
include the Code Level Metrics Data Program, IV&V of Neural 
Nets, and Software Legacy Research;
      $900,000 for the NASA Virtual Teams Collaboration Pilot 
at Glenn Research Center;
      $4,500,000 for the WVHTCF for research of grid-computing 
based evolutionary design techniques across NASA applications;
      $600,000 for the WVHTCF's Network Learning Alliance;
      $1,100,000 for Fairmont State University for aerospace 
programs, teaching labs, equipment for programs and necessary 
improvements and upgrades to the Fairmont State University 
Aerospace Education Center;
      $4,000,000 for Glenville State College for laboratories, 
equipment, planning and programs associated with the science 
center;
      $2,100,000 for the WVHTCF program for the Innovative 
Research of Technologies to Enable Next Generation Space 
Exploration;
      $1,500,000 for the Glenn Research Center Collaborative 
Engineering Environment;
      $100,000 for Albany Technical College in Albany, Georgia 
for a technology, math and engineering program;
      $150,000 for Muscogee County Schools in Georgia for math 
and science programs;
      $250,000 for Albany State University in Albany, Georgia 
for project ``Jump Start'' for a math and science education 
enhancement program;
      $150,000 for Andrew College, Georgia, for a rural math, 
science and engineering program;
      $600,000 for Richland County Challenger Learning Center 
for Space Education in Columbia, South Carolina;
      $2,000,000 for the Sci-Quest Hands-On Science Center;
      $1,400,000 for the Alabama A&M University for Advanced 
Propulsion Materials Research;
      $800,000 for the University of Alabama in Huntsville for 
the Laboratory for Advanced Scintillator Materials;
      $500,000 for the U.S. Space & Rocket Center for museum 
exhibits updates;
      $2,300,000 for the Propulsion Research Laboratory at the 
Marshall Space Flight Center for advanced propulsion test 
equipment;
      $1,000,000 for the Mid-Atlantic Aerospace Complex in 
Bridgeport;
      $100,000 for the Lower Hudson Valley Challenger Center;
      $3,500,000 for the Educational Advancement Alliance to 
support the Alliance's K-12 math, science and technology 
education and scholarship program;
      $700,000 for Middle Tennessee State University for K-12 
Science Education Enhancements;
      $250,000 for the Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics Center at Tennessee Tech University;
      $1,000,000 for the National Center of Excellence in Small 
Scale Systems Packaging at the State University of New York in 
Binghamton;
      $2,500,000 for Goddard Space Flight Center for Radiance 
process laser dry cleaning capability;
      $2,000,000 for Goddard Space Flight Center's Integrated 
Modeling Environment for Safety of Space Flight initiative;
      $100,000 for planning associated with the Plum Brook 
Station Alternative Energy Development;
      $250,000 for East Providence School Department, Rhode 
Island, for instruction labs in math and science;
      $200,000 for the University of Rhode Island Engineering 
School;
      $200,000 for the Providence School Department, Rhode 
Island, for instructional labs in math and science;
      $1,000,000 for continuation of NASA's Science and 
Education Institutional collaboration between the American 
Museum of Natural History, New York;
      $600,000 for the Chabot Space and Science Center in 
Oakland, California for The Future Programs for Humans in Space 
Education Programs;
      $950,000 for the Sacramento Space Science Center at 
California State University;
      $500,000 for the MCNC-Research and Development Institute 
(RDI) for continued funding for a Laboratory for Distributed 
Chemical and Biological Sensors;
      $500,000 for North Carolina State University's Center for 
Sustainable Life Support;
      $500,000 for the North Carolina Museum of Natural 
Sciences;
      $1,000,000 for the University of San Francisco to acquire 
equipment for laboratories and upgrades to a science center;
      $250,000 for the Liberty Science Center;
      $500,000 for St. Peter's College, New Jersey, for 
enhancing physical sciences and human factors education and 
research;
      $1,000,000 for Downey, California related to housing of a 
Space Shuttle mock-up;
      $300,000 for the Bronx Community College Center for 
Sustainable Energy;
      $1,000,000 for Ball State University, Indiana, Human 
Performance Laboratory;
      $750,000 for the University of Massachusetts at Amherst 
for the U.S./Mexico large millimeter telescope project;
      $4,500,000 for the California Academy of Sciences to 
support technologies and educational programming for the 
Morrison Planetarium;
      $200,000 to Coppin State University for the Middle 
Passage Project to support the Geospatial Sciences Laboratory
      $1,000,000 for the Dole Scholarship Program;
      $1,500,000 for weather mapping in Alaska;
      $3,500,000 for the Biodefense Research Infrastructure 
Project at St. Louis University;
      $4,000,000 for the Stennis Commercial Technology Program 
(CTP);
      $500,000 for the AgCam Science Applications Team, Montana 
State University, Bozeman, Montana;
      $2,000,000 for the University of South Alabama to develop 
a high peak power plasmoid thruster;
      $1,000,000 for the University of Louisville Rejuvenating 
Injured Tissues for Enhanced Wound Healing Project;
      $100,000 for the La Rouche College Chemistry Initiative;
      $300,000 for the Stroud Water Research Center;
      $1,000,000 for the Delaware AeroSpace Education 
Foundation, Kent County, Delaware;
      $3,500,000 for Auburn University to develop high 
efficiency, free piston stirling converters;
      $250,000 for the Space Foundation's Integrated Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education 
Program;
      $200,000 for the Colorado Consortium for Earth and Space 
Science Education Challenger Learning Center of Colorado 
Springs;
      $350,000 for the Center for Science and Technology at 
Dominican University, San Rafael, California;
      $300,000 for the Sun-Climate and Extra solar Planets 
Research Program at Tennessee State University;
      $750,000 for the Digital Image Archive Center at Utah 
State University;
      $2,500,000 for the Composites Technology Institutes, 
Marshall University, Huntington, West Virginia;
      $1,750,000 for the Ultra-Long-Duration Balloon Program at 
New Mexico State University;
      $200,000 for the Adventure Science Center--Bridges to the 
Universe;
      $500,000 for the GeoInformatics Training, Research, 
Education and Extension Center (GeoTREE) for emergency planning 
and management;
      $4,000,000 for the Chesapeake Information Based 
Aeronautics Consortium, Baltimore, Maryland of which $1,000,000 
is for a demonstration of the Navy's JATDI program into 
civilian applications;
      $750,000 for the University of Colorado Institute for 
Micro/Nano Technology for Engineering and Life Sciences;
      $1,000,000 for the North Alabama Science Center's Alabama 
Nature Center interactive immersive-reality science laboratory;
      $2,000,000 for Constellation University for the CU 
Research Program;
      $1,000,000 for Philadelphia University for the Scientific 
Reasoning-Inquiry Based Education Initiative;
      $2,000,000 for the University of Rochester, Rochester, 
New York for optics research;
      $2,000,000 for the University of Louisville Space Flight 
Exploration Project;
      $2,500,000 for the National Space Science and Technology 
Center to develop high power thin disk lasers;
      $4,000,000 for the Alliance for NanoHealth;
      $3,000,000 for the Northern Great Plains Space Sciences 
Technology Center at the University of North Dakota, Grand 
Forks;
      $1,100,000 for the Glenn Research Center for research and 
technology programs in advanced aeronautics programs, including 
turbine engine research;
      $1,000,000 for the Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering 
Initiative;
      $2,000,000 for the development of a prototype systems 
integration node for secure data storage at MSFC;
      $100,000 for the Franklin & Marshall Life Sciences 
Facility;
      $1,000,000 for the University of Mississippi to expand 
the National Center for Air and Space Law (NCASL) mission;
      $1,500,000 for the Houston Advanced Research Center;
      $500,000 for the University of Idaho for Radiation-
Tolerant Ultra-Low-Power (RTULP) electronics;
      $800,000 for the Combined Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET) and Computed Tomography (CT) Scanner at Colorado State 
University;
      $3,000,000 to the Mauna Kea Discovery Center, Hilo, 
Hawaii;
      $2,750,000 for the Glenn Research Center for research and 
technology programs in electric power and propulsion, including 
photovoltaics, solar power, fuel cells, and other forms of 
energy storage;
      $1,000,000 for the Nuclear Systems Initiative at the 
Propulsion Research Lab for a modeling and simulation test bed 
environment;
      $500,000 for Wheelock College, Boston, Massachusetts, for 
K-6 science teacher education;
      $1,250,000 for the Astromaterials Institute at University 
of New Mexico;
      $500,000 for the Manned Space Flight Education 
Foundation;
      $600,000 for the Sci-Port Discovery Center, Shreveport, 
Louisiana;
      $500,000 for the Temporal Land Cover Change Research 
Program at Idaho State University;
      $1,000,000 for the Mississippi Coastal Disaster Inventory 
Initiative;
      $1,000,000 for the Advanced Computing Center at the 
University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont;
      $5,000,000 for the Autonomous Rendezvous and Docking 
Center of Excellence;
      $4,000,000 for the Micro Satellite Development program at 
the National Space, Science and Technology Center in 
coordination with NASA's Systems Development, Integration and 
Test Division;
      $50,000 for the Denver Museum of Nature and Science Space 
Odyssey Initiative;
      $2,500,000 for the Saturn V Rocket restoration at the 
U.S. Space and Rocket Center;
      $1,000,000 for the Center for Space and Planetary 
Sciences at the University of Arkansas, Fayetville;
      $1,000,000 for the Space Dynamics Laboratory Calibrations 
Standards Initiative at Utah State University;
      $1,250,000 for Compact Laser Sensors at Montana State 
University;
      $400,000 for the Glenn Research Center for Human Health 
and Performance in Space;
      $600,000 for the Central Nebraska Planetarium at the 
University of Nebraska at Kearney;
      $3,000,000 to develop and demonstrate an Airport 
Operations Virtual Systems Laboratory;
      $500,000 for the Space Engineering Institute at Texas A&M 
University;
      $3,000,000 for the National Technology Transfer Center at 
Wheeling Jesuit University, Wheeling, West Virginia for the 
HEALTHeWV program;
      $750,000 for the Glenn Research Center for applied 
research in nuclear power and propulsion systems;
      $2,000,000 for the Institute for NanoBio Technology at 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland;
      $1,000,000 for a Methane Propellant Viability Assessment 
and Program Plan to be conducted within the Rocket Propulsion 
Test Program;
      $2,000,000 for continued operation of the Classroom of 
the Future at Wheeling Jesuit University, Wheeling West 
Virginia;
      $5,000,000 for the Propulsion Research Lab for the 
development of a Crew Launch Vehicle Integrated Health 
Monitoring Fault Detection and Correction system;
      $4,000,000 for infrastructure upgrades at the Wallops 
Island Flight Facility to accommodate unmanned aerial vehicles 
at existing hangars as well as the creation of ground support 
facilities for medium and high altitude UAV's and the 
definition and development of end to end concept of operations 
including payload-air vehicle integration and developing a 
standardized UAV design for civilian agencies;
      $250,000 for the Geospatial Extension Specialist program 
at Utah State University;
      $2,000,000 for high end computing capability at the 
Goddard Space Flight Center;
      $4,000,000 for MSFC for the development of a knowledge 
management integrated data environment;
      $500,000 for the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport to study 
the expansion of the Wallops Island Flight Facility into a 
next-generation, commercial cargo spaceport;
      $1,250,000 for Spaceflight Health Monitoring Technology 
at Montana State University;
      $2,000,000 for the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory 
in Richland, Washington;
      $400,000 for Applied Technology Center at Montana State 
University--Northern;
      $1,500,000 for the NASA Langley Visitor Center for the 
``Space Bound'' campaign;
      $750,000 for the Aerospace Propulsion Particulate 
Emissions Reduction Program at the University of Missouri;
      $5,000,000 for the High Altitude Deployment Demonstration 
(HADD) within the Planetary Aircraft Risk Reduction program 
(PARR) for integrating existing aircraft critical sub systems 
and conducting a flight-testing program using a full size 
prototype aircraft;
      $1,000,000 for the Manufacturing Research Center at 
Southern Methodist University;
      $3,500,000 for the Maryland Institute for Dexterous Space 
Robotics at the University of Maryland, College Park;
      $2,000,000 for the Bio-Info-Nano Research and Development 
Institute at NASA Ames Research Center to be operated in 
conjunction with University of California at Santa Cruz;
      $600,000 for the Montana Technology and Innovation 
Partnership;
      $2,000,000 for continued operations of the National 
Technology Transfer Center (NTTC) at Wheeling Jesuit 
University, Wheeling, West Virginia;
      $2,000,000 for the Maryland Department of Business and 
Economic Development for broadband connection to the Wallops 
Island Flight Facility;
      $1,000,000 for the Mitchell Institute, Portland, Maine 
for educational purposes; and
      $375,000 for the Challenger Foundation for education 
software.

                        EXPLORATION CAPABILITIES

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $6,663,000,000 for 
Exploration Capabilities instead of $6,712,900,000 as proposed 
by the House and $6,603,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. 
Changes to the budget request include an overall reduction for 
International Space Station of $80,000,000, of which 
$60,000,000 is for crew cargo services, a reduction of 
$10,000,000 for space communications, and $10,000,000 as a 
general reduction. The conferees have addressed funding and 
policy direction for the aeronautics research program under the 
Science, Aeronautics and Exploration account.
      The conferees agree to the following:
      1. The conference agreement provides a funding level for 
the International Space Station crew and cargo services program 
of $198,000,000, which includes $98,000,000 in carryover funds 
from fiscal year 2005 as well as $100,000,000 appropriated in 
this Act. This funding level should be sufficient to address 
NASA's needs in this area.
      2. NASA is encouraged to utilize, to the fullest extent 
possible, commercially developed domestic cargo resupply and, 
ultimately, crew rotation capabilities for the International 
Space Station. This should be a priority for NASA. Utilizing 
the market offered by the International Space Station's 
requirements for cargo and crew will help to spur true 
competition in the private sector, result in savings that can 
be applied elsewhere in the program, and promote further 
commercial opportunities in the aerospace sector.
      3. The conferees are concerned that construction of 
facilities projects that have been planned and deferred by NASA 
in the past have not been readdressed in a satisfactory manner. 
One such project is building 4601 at the Marshall Space Flight 
Center. The conferees direct NASA to begin construction of 
building 4601, beginning in fiscal year 2006, from within funds 
provided for the construction of facilities. Furthermore, 
construction funds should not be taken from the general and 
administrative services account to cover this activity.
      4. NASA is reminded that it must request a reprogramming, 
in writing, to move or alter the purpose of any funds related 
to the Shuttle program, and that NASA must include the out-year 
impacts on all activities involved in such a reprogramming. In 
addition, NASA is directed to consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations on all proposed changes to investments in the 
Shuttle program. These consultations should occur before any 
final decisions are made.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $32,400,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General as proposed by both the House and 
Senate. The conference agreement includes bill language 
proposed by the Senate that extends the availability of funds 
until September 30, 2007.

                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

      The conferees agree to the following:
      1. Bill language is included as proposed by the House 
making minor technical changes to the language dealing with 
environmental compliance and restoration activities. The Senate 
bill had similar language.
      2. Bill language is included as proposed by the House 
making minor technical changes to the language dealing with the 
availability of funds for construction of facilities. The 
Senate bill had similar language.
      3. Bill language is included as proposed by the Senate 
dealing with prizes. Funding for the Centennial Challenge is 
not available for obligation unless authorized. The House bill 
had no similar language.
      4. Bill language is included as proposed by the Senate 
that allows the merging of unexpired balances that are 
transferred to the new account established under this Act. The 
House bill had no similar language.
      5. Bill language is included as proposed by the House 
that incorporated by reference the program, projects, and 
activities included in the statement of the managers 
accompanying this Act. The Senate bill had no similar language.
      6. Bill language is not adopted as proposed by the House 
that would have allowed for the transfer of funds between 
appropriations accounts. The Senate bill had no similar 
provision.

                      National Science Foundation

      The conference agreement includes $5,653,370,000 for the 
six appropriations accounts of the National Science Foundation 
(NSF), instead of $5,643,370,000 as proposed by the House and 
$5,530,959,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                    RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement includes $4,387,520,000 for the 
Research and Related Activities account, instead of 
$4,377,520,000 as proposed by the House and $4,345,213,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes language allowing funds 
under this heading to be available for polar icebreaking 
services. The conferees expect the NSF to reimburse the United 
States Coast Guard for such services pursuant to a memorandum 
of agreement. The conference agreement includes, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding the submission of a 
report on alternatives for long-term icebreaking needs and 
future options for supporting the United States presence in the 
Antarctic.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report on innovation inducement prizes. The 
conference agreement also includes, by reference, language in 
the Senate report on the Plant Genome Research program and 
radio astronomy.
      The conferees agree that funding for the Children's 
Research Initiative research centers program shall continue at 
least at the fiscal year 2005 level. The conferees commend NSF 
for its Silicon Nanoelectronics and Beyond program and its 
partnership with the Nanoelectronics Research Initiative, which 
involves the sponsorship of research in the areas of 
information technology and electronics. The conferees encourage 
NSF to continue its support for such research in fiscal year 
2006 at the same level as fiscal year 2005.

          MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement includes $193,350,000 for the 
Major Research Equipment and Facilities Construction (MREFC) 
account, as proposed by the House and Senate. In addition, the 
conferees are aware that unobligated balances of at least 
$14,880,000 are available from fiscal year 2005, resulting in a 
total funding availability of $208,230,000 under this account. 
The conferees agree to the following distribution of available 
resources, which fully funds all requested MREFC projects for 
fiscal year 2006:

                         [Dollars in thousands]

                                                    Conference agreement
Atacama Large Millimeter Array................................   $49,240
EarthScope....................................................    50,620
IceCube Neutrino Observatory..................................    50,450
Scientific Ocean Drilling Vessel..............................    57,920
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total, MREFC............................................   208,230

                     EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES

      The conference agreement includes $807,000,000 for the 
Education and Human Resources (EHR) account as proposed by the 
House, instead of $747,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
conferees agree to the following distribution of funds under 
this account for fiscal year 2006:

                         [Dollars in thousands]

                                                    Conference agreement
Math and Science Partnerships.................................   $64,000
EPSCoR........................................................   100,000
Elementary, Secondary & Informal Education....................   172,500
Undergraduate Education.......................................   146,000
Graduate Education............................................   155,000
Human Resource Development....................................   120,000
Research, Evaluation and Communication........................    49,500
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

    Total, EHR................................................   807,000

      Within the amount provided for Human Resource 
Development, the conferees agree that $25,800,000 shall be for 
the Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation program 
and $35,800,000 shall be for the Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities Undergraduate Program. In addition, the amount 
provided for Human Resource Development continues funding for 
the Tribal Colleges and Universities program, and the HBCU-
Research University Science and Technology initiative within 
the Center of Research Excellence in Science and Technology 
program.
      NSF plays a significant role in attracting more of the 
best and brightest students in the Nation into the science, 
mathematics, engineering, and technology fields. The conferees 
urge NSF to work towards increasing the number of women, 
minorities, and other underrepresented groups to the greatest 
extent possible.
      Within the amount provided for Undergraduate Education, 
the conference agreement continues funding for the Robert Noyce 
Scholarship program and the Advanced Technological Education 
program.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding the Math and Science Partnership 
(MSP) program.
      Within the funding provided under this account, the 
conferees direct the NSF to initiate a demonstration program to 
provide seed money for new projects with the goal of increasing 
the pool of individuals pursuing science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics careers through programs that 
catalyze and maintain interest of K-8 students in math and 
science. The projects must stimulate interest and provide 
exciting but challenging educational experiences in math and 
science that are continuous and seamless from initial contact 
and throughout high school. The conferees agree that the NSF 
shall conduct a merit-based peer review process to select 
projects for funding, and that each project shall involve 
sustainable coalitions of industry/business, colleges of 
education, and educational agencies.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $250,000,000 for the 
Salaries and Expenses account as proposed by the House, instead 
of $229,896,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement includes full requested funding for 23 new positions, 
and includes, by reference, guidance in the House report 
regarding priority areas for the allocation of additional 
personnel. The conferees agree that at least three positions 
shall be allocated to the Office of the Deputy Director of 
Large Facility Projects to improve oversight of large research 
facility projects.

                  OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD

      The conference agreement includes $4,000,000 for the 
Office of the National Science Board, as proposed by the House 
and Senate. The conference agreement includes, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding the establishment of a 
Board commission on science education.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement includes $11,500,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General as proposed by the House and 
Senate.

            TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

      In total, the conference agreement includes 
$9,685,574,000 for the Department of State and the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors. Of the total amount provided, 
$9,553,874,000 is derived from general purpose discretionary 
funds and $131,700,000 is scored as mandatory spending. The 
conference agreement includes $1,599,723,000 to continue 
worldwide security activities, including the design and 
construction of replacement facilities for the most vulnerable 
overseas posts.
      For purposes of this title and relevant related agencies 
in title V of this Act, the language set forth in House Report 
109-118 and Senate Report 109-96 should be complied with unless 
specifically addressed in the accompanying bill and statement 
of the managers to the contrary. The statement of the managers, 
while repeating some report language for emphasis or 
clarification, does not intend to negate the language in either 
the House or Senate reports unless expressly addressed herein.

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

      The conference agreement includes a total of 
$9,033,231,000 for the Department of State. Of the total amount 
provided, $8,901,531,000 is derived from general purpose 
discretionary funds and $131,700,000 is scored as mandatory 
spending.
      The conference agreement includes a total of 
$6,517,365,000 for the discretionary appropriation accounts 
under Administration of Foreign Affairs; $2,201,712,000 for 
International Organizations; $67,339,000 for International 
Commissions; and $115,115,000 for other activities. The 
conferees' priorities for the Department of State are described 
in the following paragraphs.
      The conferees agree with the direction of the Senate with 
respect to submission of a report on proposals to improve 
budget justification materials submitted with the fiscal year 
2007 budget request. The Department of State should submit 
proposals to both the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations no later than December 15, 2005.

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $4,369,542,000 for the 
Diplomatic and Consular Programs account, instead of 
$4,436,641,000 as proposed by the House and $4,444,641,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement includes 
$689,523,000 to continue funding for worldwide security 
upgrades, and $334,000,000 for public diplomacy programs. The 
conference agreement includes $930,610,000 for the border 
security program, including $74,213,000 in appropriated funds, 
$672,097,000 in Machine Readable Visa (MRV) fees, and 
$184,300,000 in Enhance Border Security Program fees and Visa 
Fraud fees.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
as proposed in the House report regarding: the detail of a 
diplomatic security agent to the FBI's National Gang 
Intelligence Center; follow-on efforts related to an external 
review of public diplomacy programs; the American Corners 
program; the microscholarships program; diplomatic efforts to 
support the expansion of audiences for U.S. international 
broadcasting; international book programs; reporting on MRV fee 
collections; the diversity visa program; fingerprint technology 
standards; minority recruitment and hiring; overseas American 
schools; security of classified material; an export control 
process plan; war crimes in West Africa; right-sizing the U.S. 
overseas presence; presence in China; intellectual property 
rights enforcement; and intercountry adoption. The conference 
agreement also includes, by reference, language in the House 
and Senate reports regarding the Office of the Special 
Coordinator for Tibetan Issues.
      The conferees expect that within the planned personnel 
complement for Baghdad, Iraq, that one Senior Foreign Service 
Officer who reports directly to the Ambassador will be assigned 
as the lead human rights official in Baghdad. This officer 
should be tasked with encouraging incorporation of human rights 
principles during Iraq's constitutional and legal 
reconstruction, and especially to secure for all individuals 
strong human rights provisions, including freedom of thought, 
conscience, religion or belief, and due process of law, through 
the Iraqi legal system and the implementation of the Iraqi 
constitution.
      The conference agreement includes a program increase of 
$150,000 and two additional positions for the Office to Monitor 
and Combat Trafficking in Persons. The conferees support the 
efforts of the Office to further strengthen the annual 
reporting process and those of the Department-led Senior Policy 
Operating Group to coordinate interagency activities to 
implement the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000.
      The conferees urge the Department of State to ensure that 
no later than 30 days after the date of issuance by the U.S. 
mission in a foreign country, the Trafficking in Persons Report 
and the International Religious Freedom Report be translated 
into the official language of that country. The translated 
report should be posted on the Web site of the U.S. Embassy in 
that country. The conferees strongly believe that translation 
of the reports is critical to accomplishing the purpose of the 
U.S. Congress in requiring these reports.
      The conferees direct that not later than February 15, 
2006, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report setting forth the number of personnel 
of the Department of State performing legislative liaison or 
legislative affairs functions as of January 1, 2006. The report 
shall include the following: the number of personnel of the 
Department of State assigned to full-time legislative liaison 
or affairs functions, shown by organizational entity, and the 
number of personnel of the Department of State either in a part 
time or support function. The report shall include a 
description of each position, including those unfilled as of 
January 1, and a summary comparing the total cost to the 
Department for all legislative affairs functions for fiscal 
year 2006 and the justification of funds contained in the 
fiscal year 2007 budget request.
      The conferees continue to follow the development of the 
ePassport and are aware that the Department of State is working 
to select a microchip technology that will be embedded in next-
generation passports. The conferees direct the Department to 
submit a report no later than 30 days after the enactment of 
this Act to the Committees on Appropriations describing the 
selection criteria for production of these chips and how it 
will provide for domestic integration and personalization of 
ePassports in a secure facility.
      The conference agreement includes $3,000,000 for the 
Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation for grants to 
preserve objects, sites, and forms of cultural expression, as 
proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 for the 
Cultural Antiquities Task Force, as proposed by the Senate. The 
Task Force is directed to continue initiatives begun in prior 
years to protect and preserve archeological collections and 
sites.
      The conference agreement includes $2,000,000 for a 
contribution to the endowment of the Scholar Rescue Fund. The 
conferees understand this contribution will be exceeded by 
private donations to assist scholars to leave their home 
countries if their personal safety or academic freedom is 
threatened. Any interest income earned on the contribution may 
be retained by the Fund endowment.

                        CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND

      The conference agreement includes $58,895,000 for the 
Capital Investment Fund, as proposed by the Senate, instead of 
$69,121,000 as proposed by the House. The conference agreement 
includes two separate accounts for the Department of State's 
information technology (IT) programs. As in fiscal year 2005, 
the Capital Investment Fund will continue to provide funding 
only for new investments in IT, and the Centralized IT 
Modernization Program account will provide funding for the 
maintenance of the Department's IT infrastructure, including 
hardware and software refreshment and upgrades. The conferees 
expect that an additional amount estimated at $116,000,000 in 
expedited passport fee collections will be used for technology 
investments in fiscal year 2006.
      The conference agreement includes $7,740,000 for public 
key infrastructure requirements as described in the House 
report, and adopts, by reference, language included in the 
House report regarding the State Messaging and Archive 
Retrieval Toolset program, and language in the Senate report on 
payroll consolidation.

        CENTRALIZED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION PROGRAM

      The conference agreement includes $69,368,000 for the 
Centralized IT Modernization Program account, instead of 
$74,105,000 as proposed by the Senate. The House did not 
provide funding under this heading.
      The conferees remind the Department of State of the 
requirement to annually update the automation replacement and 
modernization plan report that was initiated in fiscal year 
2005.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement includes $30,029,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General (OIG), instead of $29,983,000 as 
proposed by the House and $33,000,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.

               EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

      The conference agreement includes a total of $431,790,000 
under this heading, instead of $410,400,000 as proposed by the 
House and $440,200,000 as proposed by the Senate. The following 
chart displays the conference agreement on the distribution of 
funds by program or activity under this account:

               Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs

               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]

  Academic Programs:                                Conference agreement
    Fulbright.................................................  $185,136
    Regional Graduate Fellowships.............................    25,342
    Educational Advising and Student Services.................     5,000
    English Language Programs.................................    14,556
    American Overseas Research Centers........................     3,316
    South Pacific Exchanges...................................       500
    Timor Leste Exchanges.....................................       750
    Mobility Exchange Clearinghouse...........................       500
    Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship Program.........     3,712
    George Mitchell Fellowship Program........................       500
    Tibet Fulbright Exchanges.................................       500
    Hemispheric Program.......................................       500
    Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship...................       400
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Subtotal, Academic Programs.............................   240,712
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
  Professional and Cultural Programs:
    International Visitor Program.............................    68,000
    Citizen Exchange Programs.................................    57,950
    Congress Bundestag Youth Exchange.........................     3,256
    Mike Mansfield Fellowship Program.........................     1,877
    Irish Institute...........................................       800
    Leadership program for emerging democracies...............     1,000
    Atlantic Corridor.........................................       250
    Ngwang Choephel Fellows (Tibet)...........................       600
    Youth Science Leadership Institute of the Americas........       150
    Africa Workforce Development..............................       400
    Institute for Representative Government...................       500
    SIFE......................................................       250
    Rule of Law Forum.........................................       850
    Northern Forum............................................       400
    Arctic Council............................................       175
    Permafrost Conference.....................................       500
    Kosovo Foundation for Medical Development.................       850
    Global Perspectives Project...............................       750
    Project Children..........................................       200
    International Leadership Training Program.................        70
    World Scholar and Athlete Games...........................       500
    International Forum on Democracy..........................       900
    Pakistan Literacy Training Program........................       250
    Empower Peace.............................................       500
    William Joiner Fellowship in War & Social Consequences....       500
    Law program for leaders from transitional democracies.....       700
    Karelia Sustainable Development Exchange..................       350
    International Leadership Program with sub-Saharan Africa..       150
    Leaders in Education Initiative...........................     2,000
    Tolerance Foreign Exchange Program........................       150
    University Consortium.....................................     1,000
    Concordia Arabic Language Exchange........................       250
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Subtotal, Professional and Cultural Exchanges...........   146,078
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
Exchanges Support.............................................    45,000
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
        Total.................................................   431,790
      Deviations from this distribution of funds will be 
subject to the normal reprogramming procedures under section 
605 of this Act.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding Fulbright exchanges with Tibet, 
Traditional Public/Private Partnership grants, artistic and 
cultural exchanges, and religious freedom exchanges. The 
conference agreement also includes, by reference, language in 
the Senate report requiring an assessment of exchange capacity 
between and among developing countries and the United States, 
and on the Timor-Leste Scholarship Program.
      The conference agreement does not include language, 
proposed by the Senate, providing $13,500,000 for educational 
and cultural exchanges with the People's Republic of China. The 
conferees direct that not less than $10,000,000 be provided for 
such activities, including for an American studies program. The 
conferees request the Department of State to consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations on the use of these funds.
      The conference agreement does not include $5,000,000 
under this heading for the Center for Asian Democracy. Instead, 
the conference agreement includes section 406 designating 
$5,000,000 for such purpose from the Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs account.
      The conferees support the Special Olympics and recommend 
that the Department of State continue to fund this program.
      Within amounts specified in the chart, the conference 
agreement includes $15,500,000 for Future Leaders Exchange 
Program, $2,200,000 for Teaching Excellence Awards, and last 
year's funding level for Muskie Graduate Fellowships, including 
the Muskie Ph.D. program, and for Junior Faculty Development 
Program exchanges, including Southeast Europe. Within the 
amount for educational advising, $1,600,000 is for Eurasia. 
Within Regional Fellowships, $2,000,000 is for the Cooperative 
Fellowships Program for Eastern Europe and Eurasia.
      The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 for an 
undergraduate international exchange program involving a 
consortium of the Virginia Military Institute, Christopher 
Newport University, the College of William and Mary, Shenandoah 
University, and James Madison University.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding proposals from Morehouse College 
and other universities to expand exchange programs, 
particularly for minority students.

                       REPRESENTATION ALLOWANCES

      The conference agreement includes $8,281,000 for 
representation allowances as proposed by the House and Senate. 
The conference agreement includes, by reference, language in 
the House report regarding the submission of a quarterly report 
on expenditures under this account.

              PROTECTION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AND OFFICIALS

      The conference agreement includes $9,390,000 under this 
heading as proposed by the House and the Senate, and makes the 
funding available for two fiscal years as proposed by the 
House. The conference agreement includes, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding the Department of 
State's treatment of reimbursement requests and the submission 
of a report on budgeting for protection expenses in light of 
heightened security measures. The conferees believe that local 
jurisdictions incurring such costs must submit a certified 
billing for such costs in accordance with program regulations. 
The conferees expect the Department to treat such submissions 
diligently and provide reimbursement for valid claims to local 
jurisdictions on a timely basis. The conferees recognize that, 
in those instances where a local jurisdiction will realize a 
financial benefit from a visit by a foreign dignitary through 
increased tax revenues, such circumstances should be taken into 
account by the Department in assessing the need for 
reimbursement under this program.

            EMBASSY SECURITY, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE

      The conference agreement includes a total appropriation 
of $1,509,000,000 for Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance, instead of $1,513,710,000 as proposed by the House 
and $1,499,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement designates $910,200,000 as available only for 
priority worldwide security upgrades, acquisition, and 
construction, the full amount requested for such activities.
      The conference agreement includes $910,320,000 for 
worldwide security upgrades, including $810,320,000 to continue 
the capital security program for constructing new secure 
replacement facilities for the Department's most vulnerable 
embassies and consulates. Within the funds made available under 
this category, the conferees expect the Department to undertake 
new office building projects from among the highest priority 
facilities listed in the Long Range Overseas Buildings Plan. 
Projects funded under this account must follow a rigorous 
rightsizing methodology.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding the submission of a spending 
plan, compound security, right-sizing, Capital Security Cost 
Sharing, and assets management.
      The conferees direct the Department of State to consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations prior to initiating any 
embassy construction projects in Thailand, including the sale 
of any properties or assets (specifically the Rajadamri 
compound). The conferees request the Department to report to 
the Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act on options to utilize the Rajadamri 
compound.

           EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR SERVICE

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $10,000,000 under this 
heading as proposed by the House, instead of $13,643,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement anticipates 
that significant carryover balances will be available for 
obligation in fiscal year 2006.

                   REPATRIATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes $712,000 for the 
subsidy cost of repatriation loans and $607,000 for 
administrative costs of the program as proposed by the House 
and Senate.

              PAYMENT TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE IN TAIWAN

      The conference agreement includes $19,751,000 under this 
heading as proposed by the House and Senate. The conference 
agreement includes, by reference, language in the House report 
regarding the submission of a spending plan, except that such 
plan shall be submitted by February 3, 2006.

     PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

      The conference agreement includes $131,700,000 under this 
heading, as proposed by the House and the Senate.

                      INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

              CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

      The conference agreement includes $1,166,212,000 under 
this heading as proposed by the Senate, instead of 
$1,144,264,400 as proposed by the House.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding reassessment of U.S. membership 
in certain international organizations, assessment rate equity, 
reform and budget discipline, the UN Regular Budget, and 
American employment levels in the UN System.
      The House and Senate bills did not include language that 
was included in the budget request authorizing the United 
States Government to use funds for the payment of interest 
costs to the United Nations for a loan for the renovation of 
its headquarters. The conferees are concerned with the 
estimated costs of the renovation, and are aware that the U.N. 
Under Secretary General for Management is currently reviewing 
the estimated cost of the renovation. The conferees direct the 
Department of State to provide the Committees on Appropriations 
a report of the results of these findings. The conference 
agreement includes section 412 expressing the sense of the 
Congress that the loan amount for the headquarters renovation 
should not exceed $600,000,000.

        CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES

      The conference agreement includes $1,035,500,000 for 
Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities as 
proposed by the House and Senate.
      The conference agreement includes, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding sexual exploitation and abuse in 
UN peacekeeping missions; UN peacekeeping in Western Sahara; UN 
peacekeeping reform; benchmarks for mission performance and 
termination; and the Office of Internal Oversight Services. The 
allocation of funds under this account to specific missions 
shall be subject to the reprogramming requirements in section 
605 of this Act.
      The conference agreement includes section 409, which 
limits payments for UN peacekeeping to $1,035,500,000 from 
funds made available by this Act. The conferees expect the 
Department of State to evaluate and prioritize United States 
participation in, and support for, UN peacekeeping missions. In 
a climate of limited resources the conferees continue to insist 
that the Department live within appropriated amounts, 
prioritize as necessary according to policy goals, take steps 
as necessary to conclude or withdraw support from lower 
priority missions, and refrain from entering into new 
commitments without identifying offsetting savings or 
requesting supplemental appropriations.

                       International Commissions

 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO

      The conference agreement includes a total of $33,300,000 
for the International Boundary and Water Commission, United 
States and Mexico (IBWC). The total amount provided includes 
$28,000,000 for Salaries and Expenses and $5,300,000 for 
Construction. The conference agreement includes language 
authorizing not to exceed $6,000 for representation expenses.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement for the Salaries and Expenses 
account includes $28,000,000, instead of $27,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $28,700,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement includes, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding the use of surplus 
operations and maintenance funding through reprogramming.

                              CONSTRUCTION

      The conference agreement includes $5,300,000 under this 
heading, as proposed by both the House and the Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $1,200,000 for 
Boundary-wide Construction; $3,700,000 for the Water Quantity 
Program; and $400,000 for the Water Quality Program.
      Within the amount for the Water Quantity Program, the 
conferees recommend that the Commission increase funding for 
the Lower Rio Grande Flood Control Project above the $2,200,000 
contained in the budget request. Studies by the U.S. Section of 
the IBWC conclude that Rio Grande Valley levees are deficient 
in height, geologically flawed, and structurally unsound. The 
conferees expect the Administration, in the upcoming budget 
cycle, to request sufficient funds to address these needs. 
Also, the conferees direct that $250,000 be made available for 
the Rio Grande Canalization project.
      The conferees encourage the IBWC to attempt, if possible, 
to achieve greater secondary treatment of Mexican sewage within 
current funding levels under this account, including carryover 
balances.
      Any obligation of carryover balances available under this 
heading, including any new project starts, shall be subject to 
the reprogramming process described in section 605 of this Act.

              AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS

      The conference agreement includes $10,039,000 under this 
heading, instead of $9,500,000 as proposed by the House and 
$10,400,000 as proposed by the Senate. This amount includes 
$1,429,000 for the International Boundary Commission; 
$2,110,000 for the Border Environment Cooperation Commission; 
and $6,500,000 for the International Joint Commission including 
$300,000 for the Lake Champlain Basin Program.

                  INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS

      The conference agreement includes $24,000,000 under this 
heading, instead of $22,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$25,623,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conferees direct 
that the following amounts be provided: $2,072,000 for the 
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission; $3,029,000 for the 
Pacific Salmon Commission; $300,000 for the Western and Central 
Pacific Fisheries Commission; $3,079,000 for the International 
Pacific Halibut Commission; $85,000 for the North Pacific 
Marine Science Organization; and $14,937,000 for the Great 
Lakes Fisheries Commission. The conferees expect the Department 
of State to allocate the balance of funds in the conference 
agreement, and, through the regular reprogramming process, any 
additional funds that may become available, to priority 
commissions.
      The conference agreement includes $500,000 within the 
amount provided for the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission (GLFC) 
for eradication of lampreys in Lake Champlain, as proposed by 
the Senate. The GLFC is directed to give priority to States 
that have provided matching grants when distributing lampricide 
funds.
      The conferees expect the Department of State to take 
immediate action to evaluate and prioritize United States 
participation in, and funding for, international fisheries 
commissions. In a climate of limited resources the conferees 
continue to insist that the Department operate within 
appropriated amounts, prioritize as necessary among commissions 
according to policy goals, take steps as necessary to withdraw 
from lower priority commissions, and refrain from entering into 
new commitments.

                                 Other

                     PAYMENT TO THE ASIA FOUNDATION

      The conference agreement includes $14,000,000 under this 
heading, instead of $10,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$15,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement 
includes, by reference, language in the House and Senate 
reports regarding certain Foundation programs. The conferees 
continue to strongly support the programs and activities of 
TAF.

         CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN-WESTERN DIALOGUE TRUST FUND

      The conference agreement includes $5,000,000 under this 
heading to be deposited in the International Center for Middle 
Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund (as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
2078) for the perpetual operations of the Center in Istanbul, 
Turkey, instead of $7,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The 
House did not propose funding in this account. The interest and 
earnings accruing to the Trust Fund, estimated at $1,000,000, 
shall be available for the steering committee, chaired by the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers (CAORC), for the 
operations of the Center.

                 EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

      The conference agreement includes an appropriation of 
interest and earnings from the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship 
Program Trust Fund, expected to total $500,000. The conference 
agreement includes, by reference, language in the House report 
regarding geographical priorities and the selection of fellows.

                    ISRAELI ARAB SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

      The conference agreement includes an appropriation of 
interest and earnings of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Endowment 
Fund, expected to total $375,000.

                            EAST-WEST CENTER

      The conference agreement includes $19,240,000 for the 
East-West Center, instead of $6,000,000 as proposed by the 
House and $20,000,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conferees 
direct that the Center spend no less than $3,874,000 on 
programs related to the People's Republic of China, the same 
level as fiscal year 2005. The conferees strongly encourage the 
Center to focus on successful programs in the Pacific Rim and 
Southeast Asia, in lieu of starting new programs in South Asia.

                    NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY

      The conference agreement includes $75,000,000 for the 
National Endowment for Democracy (NED), instead of $50,000,000 
as proposed by the House and $88,800,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement allocates funds to the following 
activities:

                    National Endowment for Democracy

               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]

Region:                                             Conference agreement
    Africa....................................................    $9,000
    Asia......................................................    10,000
    Middle East/North Africa..................................    22,550
    Central and Eastern Europe................................     4,000
    Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.............     8,000
    Latin America/Caribbean...................................     7,700
    Multiregional.............................................     4,000
  Other:
    Democratic Activities.....................................     1,500
    Administration............................................     8,250
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Total...................................................    75,000

      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding the International Center for 
Democratic Transition, and language reaffirming NED's duty to 
ensure that all sponsored activities adhere to core NED 
principles and requiring a report on NED activities in 
Venezuela.
      The conferees note the need for a systematic effort to 
evaluate the impact of democracy programs and the process by 
which strategic priorities are determined and funds are 
allocated to advance democracy and U.S. national interests. In 
light of the significant increase in NED resources, the 
conferees believe that a thorough program review will improve 
program results. In this regard, the conferees expect NED to 
submit a report to the Committees by March 1, 2006 outlining 
the methodologies proposed to evaluate NED democracy-promotion 
programs, to measure results, and to guide future resource 
allocation decisions.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS

      The conference agreement includes $641,450,000 to carry 
out United States International Broadcasting Operations, 
instead of $620,000,000 as proposed by the House and 
$603,394,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conference 
agreement includes funding for Broadcasting to Cuba under this 
account, at the requested level, instead of in a separate 
account as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement allocates funding under this 
account to the following activities:

                  International Broadcasting Operations

               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]

  International Broadcasting Bureau (IBB):          Conference agreement
    VOA.......................................................  $168,994
    Engineering and Technical Services........................   161,000
    Agency Direction..........................................    25,500
    Management................................................    46,000
    Program Support...........................................    16,800
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Subtotal, IBB...........................................   418,294
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
  Independent Grantee Organizations:
    RFE/RL....................................................    76,200
        (Farda)...............................................   (4,500)
        (Afghan)..............................................   (3,905)
        (Iraq)................................................   (1,858)
        (Moldova).............................................     (938)
        (Russian).............................................   (9,615)
        (Ukrainian)...........................................   (2,260)
        (News/Current Affairs)................................   (4,069)
    RFA.......................................................    30,200
    Middle East Broadcasting Networks.........................    79,100
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Subtotal, Grantees......................................   185,500
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
Broadcasting to Cuba..........................................    37,656
                    ==============================================================
                    ____________________________________________________
        Total.................................................   641,450

      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, House 
language regarding Arabic broadcasting, broadcasting to Africa, 
language service review, anti-jamming efforts, cooperation with 
the Department of Defense, Radio Free Asia broadcasting in 
Uyghur, Korean and Cantonese, and programming on religious 
freedom.
      The conferees recommend a total of $11,160,000 for the 
VOA Persian Service and a total of $4,500,000 for RFE/RL's 
Radio Farda, increases similar to those recommended by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes funding under 
Engineering and Technical Services and under VOA to support 
increased programming, and increased medium wave and FM 
transmission of U.S. International Broadcasting in Pashto to 
the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region. The conferees expect 
the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) to report to the 
Committees 60 days after enactment of this Act on an 
implementation plan for this initiative.
      Within the amount for Engineering and Technical Services, 
the conferees expect that current efforts to enable satellite 
television broadcasting to China will be continued.
      The conferees are concerned that funds allocated for the 
establishment of radio transmitters for BBG programs overseas 
remain unexpended as a result of lengthy negotiations with host 
governments over permission to erect and operate transmitters. 
The conferees direct the Department of State, no later than 60 
days after enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter 
until September 30, 2006, to report to the Committees
  on Appropriations on the status of any ongoing negotiations 
with foreign governments for permission to install and operate 
BBG transmitters. The report should also include: the proposed 
locations of planned BBG transmitters; the history of 
negotiations with the host country (and developments in the 
interim between reports); the rank and position of the 
Department of State personnel conducting the negotiations; the 
rank and position of the host nation officials participating in 
the negotiations; the reasons cited by the host country for the 
lack of progress; and the anticipated date that the 
transmitters will be fully operational.

                   BROADCASTING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

      The conference agreement includes $10,893,000 for 
broadcasting capital improvements, as proposed by the House and 
Senate.
      The conferees expect the Board to keep the Committees on 
Appropriations informed on the status of its efforts to acquire 
additional transmission capabilities in the Middle East, 
including Egypt.
      The conference agreement allocates funding under this 
account to the following activities:

                    Broadcasting Capital Improvements

               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]

  Maintenance, Improvements, Replace and Repair:    Conference agreement
    Continuing Maintenance and Repair.........................    $4,902
    VOA TV....................................................       769
    Security..................................................     2,047
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

      Subtotal, MIRR:.........................................     7,718
    Upgrade of Existing Facilities............................     2,375
    Satellite and Terrestrial Program Feeds...................       800
                    --------------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________

        Total, BCI:...........................................    10,893

       General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agency

      The conference agreement includes section 401, permitting 
the use of funds for allowances, differentials and 
transportation.
      The conference agreement includes section 402 dealing 
with transfer authority.
      The conference agreement includes section 403 prohibiting 
the use of funds by the Department of State or the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors to provide certain assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
      The conference agreement includes section 404 on the 
responsibilities of the Senior Policy Operating Group on 
Trafficking in Persons. The conferees understand that the 
Operating Group has been actively meeting and performing its 
designated functions since enactment of Section 406 of division 
B of Public Law 108-7. The conferees agree that all anti-
trafficking policies, grants and grant policies shall be 
covered by the provisions of Section 406 of division B of 
Public Law 108-7. The conference agreement also includes 
language clarifying that the Senior Policy Operating Group and 
its chairman are the coordinating body (and official) 
accountable for federal anti-trafficking policies, grants and 
grant policies. The language also makes clear that the 
coordinating responsibilities of the Operating Group are not 
intended to supercede the decision making authority of the 
constituent members of the Task Force to Monitor and Combat 
Trafficking in Persons, to whom Operating Group members 
continue to report. The Operating Group is, and was intended to 
serve as, the forum for interagency coordination of anti-
trafficking policies, even as final decisions regarding any 
such policies are necessarily vested with the President and the 
senior officials who comprise the Task Force. The conferees 
agree that the Senior Operating Group and its chair have 
successfully performed the coordinating functions assigned to 
them.
      The conference agreement includes section 405 regarding 
the recording of place of birth on certain passport 
applications.
      The conference agreement includes section 406 designating 
funding for certain purposes in the Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs account.
      The conference agreement includes section 407 waiving 
certain authorization requirements.
      The conference agreement includes section 408 regarding 
tables included in the Statement of the Managers accompanying 
the Act, and describing certain notification requirements.
      The conference agreement includes section 409 limiting 
the amount available under this title for payment to the United 
Nations for expenses of international peacekeeping.
      The conference agreement includes section 410 extending 
the authorization for the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public 
Diplomacy. The conferees direct the Department of State to 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 120 
days after enactment of this Act a report that justifies 
continued funding for the United States Advisory Commission on 
Public Diplomacy and a detailed analysis of the accomplishments 
of the Commission, to include its impact on the formulation and 
conduct of United States foreign policy.
      The conference agreement includes section 411 prohibiting 
funds to pay contributions to the United Nations if the United 
Nations imposes any taxation on United States persons. The 
conferees remain concerned with proposals by international 
organizations to interfere with the sovereign right of 
jurisdictions to pursue low-tax policies and direct the 
Department of State to consider such behavior when reporting 
whether continued participation in that international 
organization serves the interests of the United States.
      The conference agreement includes section 412 expressing 
a sense of Congress regarding the renovation of the United 
Nations headquarters building.
      The conference agreement includes section 413 prohibiting 
the use of funds for any United Nations peacekeeping mission 
that involves U.S. Armed Forces under the command or 
operational control of a foreign national unless the President 
certifies that the involvement is in the national security 
interest.
      The conference agreement includes section 414 prohibiting 
the use of funds to expand the U.S. diplomatic presence in 
Vietnam beyond the level in effect July 11, 1995, unless the 
President makes a certification that several conditions have 
been met regarding Vietnam's cooperation with the United States 
on POW/MIA issues.
      The conference agreement includes section 415 extending 
the prohibition on the use of funds to issue a visa to any 
alien involved in extrajudicial and political killings in 
Haiti, including exemption and reporting requirements.
      The conference agreement includes section 416 regarding 
Capital Security Cost Sharing.
      The conference agreement includes section 417 regarding 
ceilings and earmarks of funding.
      The conference agreement does not include language 
adopted by the House regarding administration of the State 
Department Rewards for Justice Program. Absent the capture or 
death of Osama Bin Laden and other top Al Qaeda terrorists, the 
conferees direct the Department to report to the Committees by 
March 31, 2006, on ways to strengthen the administration and 
optimize the results of the State Department Rewards for 
Justice Program as it applies to the senior leadership of Al 
Qaeda, including the modifications included in the language 
adopted by the House. This report shall be prepared in 
consultation with the Department of Defense and the National 
Security Council.
      The conference agreement does not include some provisions 
included in the House bill that prohibit the use of funds in 
violation of existing law. The House included such language 
regarding child abduction, torture, and HIV/AIDS policy. 
However, the conferees wish to highlight that none of the funds 
in this Act are available to be used in contravention of 
section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, of laws 
and regulations to implement the United Nations Convention 
Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment, or of subsections (e) and (f) of 
section 301 of the United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003.
      The conference agreement does not include a sense of the 
Senate provision concerning abusive child labor practices in 
the cocoa industry. The House did not address this matter. 
However, the conferees are concerned with forced child labor in 
cocoa plantations in West Africa and urge the cocoa industry, 
the Department of State and others to meet the recommendations 
contained in the Senate provision.
      The conference agreement does not include a House 
provision regarding the denial of visas to citizens of 
countries that deny or unreasonably delay accepting the return 
from the United States of citizens, subjects, nationals, and 
residents of that country. The Senate did not address this 
matter. The conferees urge the Department of State to exercise 
the authorities that already exist under Section 243(d) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.
      The conference agreement does not include a Senate 
provision requiring a report on assistance to victims of crime 
in foreign countries. The House did not address this matter. 
The conferees encourage the Department of State to track the 
number of United States citizens who were victims of violent 
crime and to review current services to assist those citizens 
and determine if additional services are required.

                       TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                   Antitrust Modernization Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $1,172,000 for the 
Antitrust Modernization Commission, as proposed by the House. 
The Senate did not propose funding for this Commission.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $499,000 for the 
Commission as proposed in the House and Senate bills.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $9,048,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
instead of $9,096,000 as proposed by the House and $9,000,000 
as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees are concerned about the financial 
mismanagement that has occurred at the Commission in previous 
years but are encouraged by the Commission's recent efforts to 
embrace the Government Accountability Office's (GAO) 
recommendations for improving agency operations. The conferees 
expect the Commission to submit, thirty (30) days after the end 
of each quarter, reports detailing: (1) expenditures by object 
classification; (2) all existing staff vacancies; and (3) any 
hiring that occurred during the preceding quarter.
      The conferees expect the Commission to submit a detailed 
budget justification concurrent with the President's annual 
budget request, which is due on or before the first Monday in 
February pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1105 (a).

             Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $3,300,000 for the 
Commission on International Religious Freedom, instead of 
$3,200,000 as proposed by the House and $1,000,000 as proposed 
by the Senate. The conference agreement makes funds 
appropriated under this heading available until September 30, 
2007.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $2,030,000 for the 
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe as proposed in 
the House and Senate bills. The conference agreement makes 
funds appropriated under this heading available until September 
30, 2007.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $1,900,000 for the 
Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of 
China as proposed in the House and Senate bills. The conference 
agreement makes funds appropriated under this heading available 
until September 30, 2007.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $331,228,000, as 
proposed by both the House and the Senate. The amount provided 
is the same as the budget request.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report requiring a quarterly accounting of 
expenditures, including any changes resulting from 
repositioning activities.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the Senate report regarding salaries and staffing, and an 
analysis of investigation and enforcement levels. The conferees 
direct the EEOC to continue to work to resolve concerns 
regarding the pending repositioning plan.
      The conferees remind the EEOC of the reprogramming 
requirements of section 605 of this Act.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $289,771,000 for the 
salaries and expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, 
as proposed by the House instead of $297,370,000 as proposed by 
the Senate. Of the amounts provided, $288,771,000 is to be 
derived from offsetting fee collections, resulting in a net 
direct appropriation of $1,000,000.
      The conference agreement includes a limitation on 
expenditures to administer spectrum auctions, as proposed by 
the Senate.
      The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language 
in the House report regarding the FCC's budget presentation, 
acceptance of travel payments, and the Universal Service Fund. 
The conference agreement adopts, by reference, language in the 
Senate report regarding broadcast television standards.
      The conferees understand that the FCC plans to convene a 
panel of experts from the public safety and communications 
industry to perform an independent review and make 
recommendations on ways to improve disaster preparedness, 
network robustness and reliability, and public safety 
operations. The conferees support this concept and encourage 
the FCC to work with its Federal partners at the Departments of 
Justice, Homeland Security, and Commerce to best address public 
safety needs, especially in the wake of a natural disaster or 
terrorist attack. The FCC should report to the Committees on 
Appropriations by March 1, 2006, on the work of this panel.
      In September of 2005, the FCC announced a planned 
reorganization. The conferees were surprised that this 
announcement was made prior to submission of a reprogramming 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations, as required 
by section 605 of this Act and previous Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Acts. The conferees remind the FCC that 
the Committees on Appropriations take very seriously the 
statutory requirement of advanced notification before any 
reorganization is implemented. The conferees direct the FCC to 
immediately submit its reorganization plan.
      The conferees note that in a hearing before the House 
Committee on Appropriations, the FCC stated that an incremental 
approach to renovating the Columbia, Maryland, laboratory was 
being considered. The conferees expect the FCC to provide a 
final recommendation on this project by January 30, 2006.
      The conferees are aware that the FCC has initiated a 
pilot program to modernize its radiation monitoring equipment. 
Specifically, the FCC is testing selective radiation meters 
(SRMs) with an evaluation of the pilot program expected in 
April, 2006. The conferees support this effort. If the FCC 
determines the pilot project is successful, the conferees 
encourage the FCC to include sufficient funding in future 
budget submissions to complete the modernization of its 
monitoring systems. The conferees also agree to consider a 
reprogramming of fiscal year 2006 funds to accelerate the 
transition to the new technology if the FCC determines it is 
warranted.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $211,000,000 for the 
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), as proposed by both the House 
and the Senate. Of the amounts provided, $116,000,000 is 
derived from Hart-Scott-Rodino premerger filing fees, 
$23,000,000 is derived from Do-Not-Call fees, and $72,000,000 
is derived from discretionary appropriations. The amount 
provided fully supports the budget request.
      The conference agreement incorporates, by reference, 
language in the Senate report regarding the exposure of 
children to violent entertainment, the Children's Online 
Privacy Protection Act, and childhood obesity.
      In section 632 of this Act, the conferees provide 
$1,000,000 for the FTC to conduct an investigation into 
nationwide gas prices, as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees strongly support the continued occupancy of 
the FTC in its current building, the FTC Building, located at 
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest, in the District of 
Columbia. The conferees are concerned that moving the 
Commission out of its current location could raise rent costs 
and therefore unnecessarily increase must-pay bills. In 
addition, the FTC building, which was originally designed and 
built for the agency in 1938, is well-suited for the 
Commission's essential functions. In particular, the three 
large ceremonial courtrooms continue to serve the needs of the 
Commission to meet and adjudicate competition and consumer 
protection cases. For these reasons, the conferees are troubled 
by a recent effort to relocate the Commission and expect the 
FTC to provide updates to the Committees on Appropriations on 
any further consideration of this matter.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

      The conference agreement includes $330,803,000 for the 
payment to the Legal Services Corporation, the same as proposed 
by the House, instead of $358,527,000 as proposed by the 
Senate.
      The conference agreement includes $312,375,000 for basic 
field programs, to be used for competitively awarded grants and 
contracts, $12,825,000 for management and administration, 
$1,255,000 for client self-help and information technology, 
$2,539,000 for the Office of the Inspector General, and 
$1,809,000 for grants to offset losses due to census 
adjustments.
      The conferees incorporate, by reference, language in the 
House report regarding rent costs.

          ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

      The conference agreement includes bill language to 
continue the terms and conditions included under this section 
in previous Appropriations Acts.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $2,920,000 for the 
Marine Mammal Commission, instead of $1,865,000 as proposed by 
the House and $2,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.

           National Veterans Business Development Corporation

      The conference agreement includes $1,500,000 for the 
National Veterans Business Development Corporation, instead of 
$2,000,000 as proposed by the Senate and $1,000,000 as proposed 
by the House (via transfer from Small Business Administration, 
Salaries and Expenses).
      The conferees note that fiscal year 2004 was the last 
year the Corporation was authorized to receive appropriated 
funds, but that start-up of the Corporation was delayed. The 
conferees encourage the Corporation to make its operations 
self-sustaining by fiscal year 2007.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $888,117,000 for the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as proposed by the 
House and the Senate. The amount provided fully supports the 
budget request.
      The conference agreement includes $10,000 to fund a 
permanent secretariat for the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions, as proposed by the House instead of 
$13,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conference agreement incorporates, by reference, 
language in the Senate report requiring quarterly updates on 
the health of financial markets and supporting continued 
hiring. The conference agreement incorporates, by reference, 
language in the House report regarding protecting Americans 
from investing in companies with ties to terrorism and human 
rights violations.
      The conferees note that during fiscal year 2005, the SEC 
identified unbudgeted costs of approximately $48,000,000, 
resulting from misestimates and omissions of costs associated 
with the construction of its new facilities in Washington, DC, 
and improvements in its new leased facilities in New York, NY, 
and Boston, MA. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) 
submitted a report on this matter on October 20, 2005. The 
conferees urge the SEC to immediately implement the 
recommendations of the GAO report, namely: to establish 
accountability at both the staff and management levels to 
oversee the formulation of budgets; to create regular reporting 
and review procedures related to the three construction and 
lease improvement projects; to improve communication and 
consultation with operating units; to evaluate options for 
budget and facilities management; and complete the hiring of 
new positions in the Office of Administrative Services and the 
Office of Financial Management. The conferees direct the SEC to 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
implementation of these GAO recommendations within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act.

                     Small Business Administration

      The conference agreement provides a total of $456,397,000 
for the five appropriations accounts of the Small Business 
Administration (SBA). Detailed guidance for the five SBA 
appropriation accounts is contained in the following 
paragraphs.

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $313,029,000 for the 
salaries and expenses account of the SBA, instead of 
$304,588,000 as proposed by the House and $336,084,000 as 
proposed by the Senate. Of the amounts provided under this 
heading, $184,529,000 is for operating expenses of the SBA. In 
addition, a total of $134,807,000 from other SBA accounts may 
be transferred to and merged with the salaries and expenses 
account, resulting in a total availability for salaries and 
expenses of $319,336,000. The additional amount consists of 
$125,807,000 from the Business Loans Program account and 
$9,000,000 from the Disaster Loans Program account for the 
administrative expenses related to those accounts.
      The conferees understand that the Administration is 
phasing out the Low Documentation Processing (Low-Doc) program 
but that no jobs will be lost. Staff that previously worked in 
the Low-Doc program will now process other business loan 
applications. The conferees understand that small business 
borrowers will continue to have access to streamlined loan 
applications through the SBA Express program. The conferees 
expect the SBA to continue to help small businesses adapt to a 
paperless procurement environment and assist small businesses 
with regulatory compliance issues through the Small Business 
Compliance Alliance. The conferees expect SBA to continue to 
enhance opportunities for small businesses to partner with the 
manufacturing sector. The conferees continue to support the 
defense transition program.
      The conferees adopt, by reference, the House report 
language concerning information technology systems and language 
requiring a report on the Small Business Development Centers, 
Women's Business Centers (WBC), and the Service Corps of 
Retired Executives (SCORE). The conferees adopt, by reference, 
House and Senate language regarding modifications to the 
HUBZone program. The SBA shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations on proposed changes to the HUBZone program no 
later than 30 days after enactment of this Act.
      Non-Credit Programs.--The conferees expect that no less 
than the following amounts shall be dedicated to these non-
credit programs of the SBA:

Veterans Programs.......................................        $750,000
7(j) Technical Assistance Programs......................       1,500,000
Small Business Development Centers......................      89,000,000
SCORE...................................................       5,000,000
Women's Business Centers................................      12,500,000
Women's Business Council................................         750,000
Native American Outreach................................       1,000,000
Drug-free Workplace Program.............................       1,000,000
Microloan Technical Assistance..........................      13,000,000
PRIME Technical Assistance..............................       2,000,000
HUBZones................................................       2,000,000
                    --------------------------------------------------------
                    ____________________________________________________
      Total, non-credit programs........................     128,500,000

      In addition, the conferees expect that the Advocacy 
Research, National Ombudsman, United States Export Assistance 
Centers, 8(a), and Office of Women's Business Ownership 
programs receive no less than the fiscal year 2005 level of 
funding. The conferees adopt, by reference, the Senate language 
regarding the Small Disadvantaged Business Program.
      The conference agreement includes bill language allowing 
WBCs in sustainability status to continue to receive grants and 
designates 41 percent of the total WBC funding for centers in 
sustainability status.

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

      The conference agreement provides $13,900,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General of the Small Business 
Administration, instead of $13,500,000 as proposed by the House 
and $14,500,000 as proposed by the Senate. The conferees 
recognize that because of the high number of recent Federal 
disaster declarations, the Office of Inspector General must 
conduct vigorous oversight of the disaster loan program to 
eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the disaster loan program. 
For this reason, the conference agreement includes language 
allowing an additional $1,500,000 to be transferred to this 
account from the Disaster Loans Program Account.

                 SURETY BOND GUARANTEES REVOLVING FUND

      The conference agreement provides $2,861,000 under this 
account, as proposed by the House, instead of $3,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                     BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement provides $126,607,000, 
consisting of $1,300,000 for subsidies for direct business 
loans and $125,807,000 for administrative expenses related to 
business loan programs. The amount provided for administrative 
expenses may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for SBA Salaries and Expenses to cover the common 
overhead expenses associated with business loans. The 
conference agreement also includes a provision allowing 
$500,000 of prior year balances to be transferred to the 
Salaries and Expenses account.

                     DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT

                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

      The conference agreement includes no new funding for the 
Disaster Loans Program Account, in accordance with the 
amendment to the President's Budget that was submitted to the 
Congress on July 15, 2005.
      The conference agreement includes bill language 
transferring $9,000,000 of prior year balances to the Salaries 
and Expenses account for indirect administrative expenses and 
$1,500,000 to the Office of Inspector General account for 
oversight of the disaster loan program.
      The conferees understand that the emergency 
appropriations provided in response to natural disasters at the 
end of fiscal year 2004 greatly exceeded the actual need for 
loans to affected businesses and individuals. In fact, over 
$600,000,000 was carried forward into fiscal year 2006; 
therefore, the conferees expect that carryover balances shall 
be applied to meet the disaster loan program's needs. For this 
reason, the conference agreement does not provide an additional 
appropriation for fiscal year 2006. The conferees request that 
the SBA continue to provide a monthly status report on disaster 
loan activity to the Committees on Appropriations.

        ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION--SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

      The conference agreement includes bill language allowing 
transfers between accounts.

                        State Justice Institute

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement provides $3,500,000 for the 
State Justice Institute (SJI), instead of $2,000,000 as 
proposed by the House and $5,000,000 as proposed by the Senate.
      The conferees expect that successful applicants for new 
and continuing SJI grants will provide a cash match of not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of the project. In addition, 
the conferees support SJI's grant requirements and remind 
grantees that adherence to grant guidelines is required in 
order to receive further Federal funding.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $3,000,000 for the 
United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, 
instead of $4,000,000 as proposed by the House and $2,800,000 
as proposed by the Senate.

                    United States Institute of Peace

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $22,350,000 for the 
United States Institute of Peace, instead of $22,850,000 as 
proposed by the House and $21,850,000 as proposed by the 
Senate. The conference agreement makes funds appropriated under 
this heading available until September 30, 2007.
      Within the amount provided, the conferees expect the 
Institute to continue high priority activities with regard to 
Sudan and Iraq, as well as follow-on activities related to the 
recommendations in the report of the Institute's Task Force on 
the United Nations.

          United States Senate-China Interparliamentary Group

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

      The conference agreement includes $150,000 for the United 
States Senate-China Interparliamentary Group as proposed by the 
Senate. The House bill did not include funding for this 
activity.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

      The conference agreement includes the following General 
Provisions:
      Sec. 601.--The conference agreement includes section 601 
regarding the use of appropriations for publicity and 
propaganda purposes.
      Sec. 602.--The conference agreement includes section 602 
regarding the availability of appropriations for obligation 
beyond the current fiscal year.
      Sec. 603.--The conference agreement includes section 603 
regarding the use of funds for consulting purposes.
      Sec. 604.--The conference agreement includes section 604 
providing that should any provision of the Act be held to be 
invalid, the remainder of the Act would not be affected.
      Sec. 605.--The conference agreement includes section 605 
regarding the policy by which funding available to the agencies 
funded under this Act may be reprogrammed for other purposes.
      Sec. 606.--The conference agreement includes section 606 
prohibiting funds in the bill from being used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) similar to proposed guidelines 
covering harassment based on religion published by the EEOC in 
October 1993.
      Sec. 607.--The conference agreement includes section 607 
regarding the purchase of American made products.
      Sec. 608.--The conference agreement includes section 608 
that requires agencies to provide quarterly reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations regarding unobligated balances.
      Sec. 609.--The conference agreement includes section 609 
requiring agencies and departments funded in this Act to absorb 
any necessary costs related to downsizing or consolidation 
within the amounts provided to the agency or department.
      Sec. 610.--The conference agreement includes section 610 
regarding the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.
      Sec. 611.--The conference agreement includes section 611 
that prohibits a user fee from being charged for background 
checks conducted pursuant to the Brady Handgun Control Act of 
1993, and prohibits implementation of a background check system 
which does not require or result in destruction of certain 
information.
      Sec. 612.--The conference agreement includes section 612 
regarding amounts available under the Crime Victims Fund.
      Sec. 613.--The conference agreement includes section 613 
providing additional amounts for the Small Business 
Administration.
      Sec. 614.--The conference agreement includes section 614 
prohibiting the use of Department of Justice funds for programs 
that discriminate against, denigrate, or otherwise undermine 
the religious beliefs of students participating in such 
programs.
      Sec. 615.--The conference agreement includes section 615 
regarding the Small Business Administration Disaster Loans 
Program.
      Sec. 616.--The conference agreement includes section 616 
regarding transfers of funds.
      Sec. 617.--The conference agreement includes section 617 
regarding the implementation of telecommuting programs.
      The conference agreement includes language requiring 
certain agencies funded in this Act to certify to the 
Committees on Appropriations that telecommuting opportunities 
have increased over the levels reported in fiscal year 2005.
      The Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently 
concluded a review of these agencies' efforts on telework and 
found inconsistencies among them, both in identifying the 
telework-eligible population and in reporting. The conferees 
expect the agencies to work diligently to address both of these 
issues and to report on their progress in their quarterly 
reports.
      The conferees expect each of the agencies to do the 
following: Expand telework-eligible population; put in place 
telework agreements for all eligible employees; and actively 
promote telework opportunities. In order to eliminate any 
negative perceptions about staff who choose to telework, 
agencies should consider providing training to managers on the 
benefits of telework arrangements.
      The conferees are troubled that many of the agencies' 
telework programs do not even have a standardized manner in 
which to report participation. The conferees expect each of 
these agencies to implement time and attendance systems that 
will allow more accurate reporting.
      Finally, the conferees expect the agencies' quarterly 
reports to highlight the following: (1) the agency population 
eligible to telework, including a comparison to the previous 
fiscal year; (2) the actual participation rate of the eligible 
population, including permanent, ad hoc, and episodic 
arrangements; and (3) the expansion of the eligible population.
      Sec. 618.--The conference agreement includes section 618 
regarding the negotiation or reevaluation of international 
agreements.
      Sec. 619.--The conference agreement includes section 619 
regarding the implementation of telecommuting programs.
      Sec. 620.--The conference agreement includes section 620 
regarding E-government initiatives.
      Sec. 621.--The conference agreement includes section 621 
regarding firearms tracing studies.
      Sec. 622.--The conference agreement includes section 622 
prohibiting the Federal Communications Commission to change 
rules governing the Universal Service Fund regarding single 
connection or primary line restrictions.
      Sec. 623.--The conference agreement includes section 623 
regarding patents.
      Sec. 624.--The conference agreement includes section 624 
that prohibits the use of funds to support or justify the use 
of torture.
      Sec. 625.--The conference agreement includes section 625 
regarding Capital Security Cost Sharing.
      Sec. 626.--The conference agreement includes section 626 
prohibiting funds for certain separation payments.
      Sec. 627.--The conference agreement includes section 627 
regarding a certain land sale.
      Sec. 628.--The conference agreement includes section 628 
regarding the development of a national aeronautics policy.
      Sec. 629.--The conference agreement includes section 629 
regarding the export of firearms.
      Sec. 630.--The conference agreement includes section 630 
regarding the use of funds to process permits to import certain 
products.
      Sec. 631.--The conference agreement includes section 631 
prohibiting funds to include certain language in new trade 
agreements.
      Sec. 632.--The conference agreement includes section 632 
designating funding for a Federal Trade Commission 
investigation on gasoline prices.
      Sec. 633.--The conference agreement includes section 633 
extending a certain exemption for the Universal Service Fund.
      Sec. 634.--The conference agreement includes section 634 
limiting attendance at international conferences.
      Sec. 635.--The conference agreement includes section 635 
regarding the responsibilities of the United States-China 
Economic and Security Review Commission.
      Sec. 636.--The conference agreement includes section 636 
regarding certain balances.
      Sec. 637.--The conference agreement includes section 637 
prohibiting funds for United States delegations to United 
Nations entities in certain circumstances.

                              (RESCISSION)

      Sec. 638.--The conference agreement includes section 638 
regarding amounts provided in this Act.

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          WORKING CAPITAL FUND

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$2,500,000 from unobligated balances in this account.

                            Legal Activities

                         ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$102,000,000 from unobligated balances in this account, instead 
of $62,000,000 as proposed by the House and $82,000,000 as 
proposed by the Senate.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$25,000,000 from unobligated balances in this account, instead 
of $103,502,000 as proposed by the Senate.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$110,500,000 from unobligated balances available to the Office 
of Justice Programs from prior year appropriations. The 
conferees direct the Department not to rescind funding from the 
State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Prison Rape Prevention 
and Prosecution Programs, gang prevention programs, or from the 
Victims of Trafficking program.

                  COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$86,500,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account, as proposed by the House.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$25,000,000 from the unobligated balances available under this 
heading.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$25,300,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$12,000,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$920,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account.

                     Small Business Administration

                         SALARIES AND EXPENSES

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$3,000,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account.

                     Business Loans Program Account

                              (RESCISSION)

      The conference agreement includes a rescission of 
$4,000,000 from the unobligated balances available in this 
account.

                   Conference Total--With Comparisons

      The total new budget (obligational) authority for the 
fiscal year 2006 recommended by the Committee of Conference, 
with comparisons to the fiscal year 2005 amount, the 2006 
budget estimates, and the House and Senate bills for 2006 
follow:

                        [In thousands of dollars]

New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 2005...     $62,939,025
Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, fiscal 
    year 2006...........................................      64,158,909
House bill, fiscal year 2006............................      61,293,285
Senate bill, fiscal year 2006...........................      63,209,272
Conference agreement, fiscal year 2006..................      61,797,098
Conference agreement compared with:
    New budget (obligational) authority, fiscal year 
      2005..............................................      -1,141,927
    Budget estimates of new (obligational) authority, 
      fiscal year 2006..................................      -2,361,811
    House bill, fiscal year 2006........................        +503,813
    Senate bill, fiscal year 2006.......................      -1,412,174

                                   Frank R. Wolf,
                                   Charles H. Taylor,
                                   Mark Steven Kirk,
                                   Dave Weldon,
                                   Virgil Goode, Jr.,
                                   Ray LaHood,
                                   John Abney Culberson,
                                   Rodney Alexander,
                                   Jerry Lewis,
                                   Alan B. Mollohan,
                                   Jose E. Serrano,
                                   Bud Cramer,
                                   Patrick J. Kennedy,
                                   Chaka Fattah,
                                 Managers on the Part of the House.

                                   Richard C. Shelby,
                                   Judd Gregg,
                                   Ted Stevens,
                                   Pete V. Domenici,
                                   Mitch McConnell,
                                   Kay Bailey Hutchison,
                                   Sam Brownback,
                                   Kit Bond,
                                   Thad Cochran,
                                   Barbara Mikulski,
                                   Daniel K. Inouye,
                                   Patrick Leahy,
                                   Herb Kohl,
                                   Patty Murray,
                                   Tom Harkin,
                                   Byron L. Dorgan,
                                   Robert C. Byrd,
                                Managers on the Part of the Senate.