Public Law 118-83
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making continuing appropriations and extensions for fiscal year 2025, 
    and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 26, 2024 -  [H.R. 9747]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Continuing 
Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations and 
Extensions Act, 2025''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of Contents.
Sec. 3. References.

             DIVISION A--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025

                         DIVISION B--EXTENSIONS

                    TITLE I--MISCELLANEOUS EXTENSIONS

                       TITLE II--HEALTH EXTENDERS

                      TITLE III--VETERANS EXTENDERS

                       TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>> REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

          DIVISION A-- <<NOTE: Continuing Appropriations Act, 
 2025. Applicability. Apportionments.>> CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 
2025

     The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or 
other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several departments, 
agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of Government for 
fiscal year 2025, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101.  Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2024 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2024, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:

[[Page 138 STAT. 1525]]

            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024 
        (division B of Public Law 118-42).
            (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2024 (division C of Public Law 118-42).
            (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2024 
        (division A of Public Law 118-47).
            (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2024 (division D of Public Law 118-42).
            (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
        Appropriations Act, 2024 (division B of Public Law 118-47), 
        except sections 637 and 638.
            (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2024 (division C of Public Law 118-47), except section 546(e), 
        and including sections 102 through 105 of title I of division G 
        of Public Law 118-47.
            (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024 (division E of Public Law 118-
        42), except section 447.
            (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024 
        (division D of Public Law 118-47).
            (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2024 
        (division E of Public Law 118-47), except the matter under the 
        heading ``Joint Items--Joint Congressional Committee on 
        Inaugural Ceremonies of 2025'', and including section 7 in the 
        matter preceding division A of Public Law 118-47.
            (10) The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024 (division A of Public 
        Law 118-42), except section 259.
            (11) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024 (division F of Public 
        Law 118-47), except section 7075(a).
            (12) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024 (division F of Public 
        Law 118-42).

    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for:
    (1) the new production of items not funded for production in fiscal 
year 2024 or prior years;
    (2) the increase in production rates above those sustained with 
fiscal year 2024 funds; or
    (3) the initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, 
activity, operation, or organization (defined as any project, 
subproject, activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram 
within a program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 
line item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-
1 line item that includes a program element and subprogram element 
within an appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or 
other authority were not available during fiscal year 2024.
    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance

[[Page 138 STAT. 1526]]

procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless 
specifically appropriated later.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any 
project or activity during the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under this Act.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2025, appropriations and 
funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act shall be 
available until whichever of the following first occurs:
            (1) The enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
        project or activity provided for in this Act.
            (2) The enactment into law of the applicable appropriations 
        Act for fiscal year 2025 without any provision for such project 
        or activity.
            (3) <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  December 20, 2024.

    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged 
to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill 
in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is 
contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without regard to the 
time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth 
in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing in this Act 
may be construed to waive any other provision of law governing the 
apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, for those programs that would otherwise have high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of appropriations at the 
beginning of fiscal year 2025 because of distributions of funding to 
States, foreign countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates 
of operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no grants 
shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act that would impinge 
on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This Act shall be implemented so that only the most 
limited funding action of that permitted in the Act shall be taken in 
order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. <<NOTE: Extensions.>>  (a) For entitlements and other 
mandatory payments whose budget authority was provided in appropriations 
Acts for fiscal year 2024, and for activities under the Food and 
Nutrition Act of 2008, activities shall be continued at the rate to 
maintain program levels under current law, under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2024, to be continued through the date specified in section 106(3).

    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Notwithstanding section 106, obligations 
for mandatory payments due on or about the first day of any month that 
begins after October 2024 but not later than 30 days after the date 
specified

[[Page 138 STAT. 1527]]

in section 106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available 
for such payments.

    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent with the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2024, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not be used until after the department 
or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-
personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this Act that 
was previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of such Act or 
as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such 
Act, respectively.
    (b) Section 6 of Public Laws 118-42 and 118-47 shall apply to 
amounts designated in subsection (a) and sections 138, 140, and 151 of 
this Act as an emergency requirement.
    (c) Each amount incorporated by reference in this Act that was 
previously designated in division B of Public Law 117-159, division J of 
Public Law 117-58, or in section 443(b) of division G of Public Law 117-
328 by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget shall continue to be treated as an amount 
specified in section 103(b) of division A of Public Law 118-5.
    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  This section shall become effective 
immediately upon enactment of this Act, and shall remain in effect 
through the date in section 106(3).

    Sec. 115. <<NOTE: Rescissions. Extensions.>>  (a) Rescissions or 
cancellations of discretionary budget authority that continue pursuant 
to section 101 in Treasury Appropriations Fund Symbols (TAFS)--

    (1) to which other appropriations are not provided by this Act, but 
for which there is a current applicable TAFS that does receive an 
appropriation in this Act; or
    (2) which are no-year TAFS and receive other appropriations in this 
Act, may be continued instead by reducing the rate for operations 
otherwise provided by section 101 for such current applicable TAFS, as 
long as doing so does not impinge on the final funding prerogatives of 
the Congress.
    (b) Rescissions or cancellations described in subsection (a) shall 
continue in an amount equal to the lesser of--
    (1) the amount specified for rescission or cancellation in the 
applicable appropriations Act referenced in section 101 of this Act; or
    (2) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> the amount of balances available, as 
of October 1, 2024, from the funds specified for rescission or 
cancellation in the applicable appropriations Act referenced in section 
101 of this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1528]]

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline. List.>>  No later than November 18, 2024, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a comprehensive list of the rescissions or cancellations that 
will continue pursuant to section 101: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Updates. Effective date.>> That the information in 
such comprehensive list shall be periodically updated to reflect any 
subsequent changes in the amount of balances available, as of October 1, 
2024, from the funds specified for rescission or cancellation in the 
applicable appropriations Act referenced in section 101, and such 
updates shall be transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate upon request.

    Sec. 116.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Farm Service 
Agency--Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate 
approved applications for direct and guaranteed farm ownership loans, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq., and direct farm operating loans, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.
    Sec. 117.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Rural Housing 
Service--Rural Community Facilities Program Account'' may be apportioned 
up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain activities as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
    Sec. 118.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Domestic Food 
Programs--Food and Nutrition Service--Special Supplemental Nutrition 
Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)'' may be apportioned at 
the rate for operations necessary to maintain participation.
    Sec. 119.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Domestic Food 
Programs--Food and Nutrition Service--Commodity Assistance Program'' may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain 
current program caseload in the Commodity Supplemental Food Program.
    Sec. 120.  Section 260 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1636i) and section 942 of the Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act 
of 1999 (7 U.S.C. 1635 note; Public Law 106-78) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``September 30, 2024''.
    Sec. 121. <<NOTE: 18 USC 3551 note.>>   During the period covered by 
this Act, section 235(b) of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (18 U.S.C. 
3551 note; Public Law 98-473; 98 Stat. 2032), as such section relates to 
chapter 311 of title 18, United States Code, and the United States 
Parole Commission, shall be applied by substituting ``37'' for ``36'' 
each place it appears.

    Sec. 122. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>   Notwithstanding section 104, 
amounts made available by section 101 for ``Corps of Engineers--Civil--
Operation and Maintenance'' may be used up to an amount not to exceed 
$37,600,000, adjusted for inflation beginning August 1, 2024, to provide 
compensation for reserving and operating 3.6 million acre-feet of pre-
planned flood storage at Hugh Keenleyside Dam to minimize the flood risk 
in the Columbia River Basin in the United States.

    Sec. 123.  During the period covered by this Act, section 3 of 
Public Law 106-392 shall be applied by substituting ``2025'' for 
``2024'' each place it appears.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1529]]

    Sec. 124. <<NOTE: Time period.>>   Notwithstanding section 106, for 
the duration of fiscal year 2025, amounts made available under section 
601(f)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 801(f)(3)) shall be 
available for any necessary expenses of the Department of the Treasury 
Office of Inspector General with respect to section 601 of such Act, 
subtitle A of title V of division N of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act of 2021, or section 3201 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, in 
addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.

    Sec. 125.  Notwithstanding section 101, for ``Executive Office of 
the President--Office of Administration--Presidential Transition 
Administrative Support'', there is appropriated $25,000,000 for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, to carry out the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 
(3 U.S.C. 102 note) and similar expenses, in addition to amounts 
otherwise available for such purposes: Provided, <<NOTE: Transfer 
authority. Reimbursement.>> That such funds may be transferred to other 
accounts (including other agencies) that provide support to offices 
within the Executive Office of the President and the Office of the Vice 
President, to carry out such purposes, including to reimburse 
obligations incurred prior to the enactment of this Act for such 
purposes.

    Sec. 126.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``District of Columbia--Federal Payment for 
Emergency Planning and Security Costs in the District of Columbia'' at a 
rate for operations of $47,000,000, for an additional amount for costs 
associated with the Presidential Inauguration to be held in January 
2025: Provided, That such amounts may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain emergency planning and security 
activities relating to such Presidential Inauguration.
    Sec. 127. (a) The matter preceding the first proviso under the 
heading ``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Public Defender 
Service'' in division B of Public Law 118-47 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 545.>>  is 
amended by striking ``, for costs associated with relocation under a 
replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and related 
facilities''.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Subject to paragraph (2), 
subsection (a) shall become effective immediately upon enactment of this 
Act.

    (2) If this Act is enacted after September 30, 2024, subsection (a) 
shall be applied as if it were in effect on September 30, 2024.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 101, the matter preceding the first 
proviso under the heading ``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia 
Public Defender Service'' in division B of Public Law 118-47, as amended 
by subsection (a), shall be applied as if ``, of which $3,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2026'' were struck.
    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, except section 106, the District of Columbia may 
expend local funds made available under the heading ``District of 
Columbia--District of Columbia Funds'' for such programs and activities 
under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2024 (title IV of 
division B of Public Law 118-47) at the rate set forth in the Fiscal 
Year 2025 Local Budget Act of 2024 (D.C. Act 25-501), as modified as of 
the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 129. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, for ``General Services 
Administration--Expenses, Presidential Transition'', there is 
appropriated $19,424,177, for an additional amount for fiscal year 2025,

[[Page 138 STAT. 1530]]

to remain available until September 30, 2025, for necessary expenses to 
carry out the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), 
of which $14,443,726 is available for activities authorized by sections 
3(a)(1) through 3(a)(7) and 3(a)(10) of such Act; $2,980,451 is 
available for activities authorized by section 5 of such Act; and 
$2,000,000 is available for activities authorized by sections 3(a)(8) 
and 3(a)(9) of such Act: Provided, That if there are two or more 
possible apparent successful candidates, each such candidate, with the 
exception of the incumbent President, is entitled to a proportional 
share of the appropriations made available for activities authorized by 
sections 3(a)(1) through 3(a)(7) and 3(a)(10) and sections 3(a)(8) and 
3(a)(9) of such Act: Provided further, That no apparent successful 
candidate shall receive more than $7,221,863 for activities authorized 
by sections 3(a)(1) through 3(a)(7) and 3(a)(10) of such Act and 
$1,000,000 for activities authorized by sections 3(a)(8) and 3(a)(9) of 
such Act: Provided further, <<NOTE: Transfer 
authority. Reimbursement.>> That such amounts may be transferred and 
credited to the ``Acquisition Services Fund'' or the ``Federal Buildings 
Fund'' to reimburse obligations incurred prior to enactment of this Act 
for the purposes provided herein related to the Presidential election in 
2024: Provided further, <<NOTE: Rescission.>>  That in the case of two 
or more possible apparent successful candidates, after a sole apparent 
successful candidate is determined, the remaining funds allotted to any 
unsuccessful candidate shall be permanently rescinded: Provided further, 
That amounts available under this section shall be in addition to any 
other amounts available for such purposes.

    (b) Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are provided by this Act 
for ``General Services Administration--Pre-Election Presidential 
Transition''.
    Sec. 130.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
for ``National Archives and Records Administration--Operating 
Expenses'', there is appropriated $23,000,000, for an additional amount 
for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until September 30, 2025, to 
carry out transition responsibilities of the Archivist of the United 
States under sections 2201 through 2209 of title 44, United States Code 
(commonly known as the ``Presidential Records Act of 1978''), in 
addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
    Sec. 131.  Notwithstanding section 101, the matter preceding the 
first proviso under the heading ``Office of Personnel Management--
Salaries and Expenses'' in division B of Public Law 118-47 shall be 
applied by substituting ``$190,784,000'' for ``$219,076,000'' and the 
second proviso under such heading in such division of such Act shall be 
applied by substituting ``$245,267,000'' for ``$192,975,000''.
    Sec. 132.  Notwithstanding section 104, amounts made available by 
section 101 to the Department of Homeland Security for ``Coast Guard--
Procurement, Construction, and Improvements'' may be used for closeout 
costs relating to the C-27J missionization program.
    Sec. 133.  During the period covered by this Act, section 
11223(b)(2) of division K of Public Law 117-263 shall be applied by 
substituting ``shall not apply'' for ``shall apply''.
    Sec. 134.  Amounts made available by section 101 to the Department 
of Homeland Security under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
Agency--Disaster Relief Fund'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to carry out response and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1531]]

recovery activities under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
    Sec. 135.  Amounts made available by section 101 to the Department 
of Homeland Security for ``United States Secret Service--Operations and 
Support'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to 
carry out protective operations, including activities related to 
National Special Security Events and the 2024 Presidential Campaign.
    Sec. 136.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security for 
``United States Secret Service--Operations and Support'', $231,000,000, 
for an additional amount for fiscal year 2025, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, for operations necessary to carry out protective 
operations including the 2024 Presidential Campaign and National Special 
Security Events: Provided, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Reports.>>  That 
not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Director of the United States Secret Service shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate an expenditure plan that identifies, by program, project, and 
activity, the funding obligated for the purposes specified in this 
section with amounts for ``Operations and Support'' in this Act and 
shall provide to the Committees monthly reports on the execution of such 
expenditure plan: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That such amounts 
may not be obligated until the Secretary of the Department of Homeland 
Security transmits to the House of Representatives Task Force on the 
Attempted Assassination of Donald J. Trump and the Senate Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs the Mission Assurance Report: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  within 15 days of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security shall 
provide to the House of Representatives Task Force on the Attempted 
Assassination of Donald J. Trump all materials responsive to such Task 
Force's letters transmitted on August 12, 2024, and August 28, 2024: 
Provided further, That the Director of the Secret Service shall respond 
in a timely manner to oversight inquiries (including requests for 
documents, information, and testimony from any Secret Service personnel) 
on protective operations funded in this Act or in Public Law 118-47 from 
the House of Representatives Task Force on the Attempted Assassination 
of Donald J. Trump; the Committees on Appropriations, Homeland Security, 
Oversight and Accountability, and Judiciary of the House of 
Representatives; and the Committees on Appropriations, Judiciary, and 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, or any 
subcommittees thereof: Provided further, That responses shall be 
considered timely if provided on or before the deadline specified by the 
requesting committee or subcommittee.

    Sec. 137. <<NOTE: 42 USC 4026 note.>> (a) Sections 1309(a) and 1319 
of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a) and 4026) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of 
this Act for ``September 30, 2023''.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Subject to paragraph (2), this 
section shall become effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    (2) If this Act is enacted after September 30, 2024, this section 
shall be applied as if it were in effect on September 30, 2024.
    Sec. 138. (a) During the period covered by this Act, section 104 of 
the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire Assistance Act (division G of Public 
Law 117-180) shall be applied by substituting the

[[Page 138 STAT. 1532]]

date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for ``2 years after the 
date on which regulations are first promulgated under subsection (f)'', 
and ``May 31, 2024''.
    (b) Amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or a 
concurrent resolution on the budget are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 139.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``Department of the Interior--National Park 
Service--Operation of the National Park System'' at a rate for 
operations of $5,000,000, for an additional amount for security and 
visitor safety activities related to the Presidential Inaugural 
Ceremonies.
    Sec. 140. (a) Funds previously made available in the Further 
Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements 
Act, 2018 (subdivision 1 of division B of Public Law 115-123) for the 
``National Park Service--Historic Preservation Fund'' that were 
available for obligation through fiscal year 2019 are to remain 
available through fiscal year 2026 for the liquidation of valid 
obligations incurred in fiscal years 2018 and 2019: Provided, That 
amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Subject to paragraph (2), this 
section shall become effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    (2) If this Act is enacted after September 30, 2024, this section 
shall be applied as if it were in effect on September 30, 2024.
    Sec. 141.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire Management'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary for wildfire 
suppression activities.
    Sec. 142. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  (a) In addition to amounts 
otherwise provided by section 101, amounts are provided for ``Department 
of Health and Human Services--Indian Health Service--Indian Health 
Services'' at a rate for operations of $24,262,000, for an additional 
amount for costs of staffing and operating facilities that were opened, 
renovated, or expanded in fiscal years 2024 and 2025, and such amounts 
may be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to staff and 
operate such facilities.

    (b) In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``Department of Health and Human Services--
Indian Health Service--Indian Health Facilities'' at a rate for 
operations of $2,060,000, for an additional amount for costs of staffing 
and operating facilities that were opened, renovated, or expanded in 
fiscal years 2024 and 2025, and such amounts may be apportioned up to 
the rate for operations necessary to staff and operate such facilities.
    Sec. 143.  During the period covered by this Act, section 113 of 
division G of Public Law 113-76, as amended by Public Law 116-6, shall 
be applied by substituting ``2025'' for ``2024''.
    Sec. 144.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
amounts are provided for ``Department of Labor--Bureau of

[[Page 138 STAT. 1533]]

Labor Statistics--Salaries and Expenses'' at a rate for operations of 
$6,000,000, for an additional amount for the Current Population Survey.
    Sec. 145. <<NOTE: Extension.>>  Activities authorized by part A of 
title IV (other than under section 403(c) or 418) and section 1108(b) of 
the Social Security Act shall continue through the date specified in 
section 106(3), in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2024, and out 
of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise 
appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for such purpose.

    Sec. 146.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, there is 
appropriated--
            (1) <<NOTE: Sheila Jackson Lee.>> for payment to the heirs 
        at law of Sheila Jackson Lee, late a Representative from the 
        State of Texas, $174,000;
            (2) <<NOTE: Elsie M. Pascrell.>>  for payment to Elsie M. 
        Pascrell, widow of William Pascrell, Jr., late a Representative 
        from the State of New Jersey, $174,000; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Beatrice Y. Payne.>>  for payment to Beatrice Y. 
        Payne, widow of Donald M. Payne, Jr., late a Representative from 
        the State of New Jersey, $174,000.

    Sec. 147.  Notwithstanding sections 102 and 104, amounts made 
available by section 101 to the Department of Defense for ``Military 
Construction, Navy'' may be used by the Secretary of the Navy to carry 
out military construction not otherwise authorized by law for a Trident 
Refit Facility project at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay.
    Sec. 148.  Notwithstanding section 101, section 126 of division A of 
Public Law 118-42 shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 2017, 
2018, 2019, and 2020'' for ``fiscal year 2017, 2018, and 2019''.
    Sec. 149. (a) <<NOTE: Rescission. Effective date.>>  The remaining 
unobligated balances as of September 30, 2024, from amounts made 
available until September 30, 2024, for ``Departmental Administration--
Construction, Major Projects'' in title II of division F of the Further 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94) are hereby 
rescinded, and in addition to amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
an amount of additional new budget authority equivalent to the amount 
rescinded pursuant to this section is hereby appropriated on September 
30, 2024, for an additional amount for fiscal year 2024, to remain 
available until September 30, 2029, and shall be available for the same 
purposes and under the same authorities provided under such heading in 
Public Law 116-94, in addition to other funds as may be available for 
such purposes.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subject to paragraph (2), this 
section shall become effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    (2) If this Act is enacted after September 30, 2024, this section 
shall be applied as if it were in effect on September 30, 2024.
    Sec. 150.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
Transportation--Office of the Secretary--Payments to Air Carriers'' may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain 
Essential Air Service program operations.
    Sec. 151.  During the period covered by this Act, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use the unobligated balances of 
amounts made available in prior fiscal years in the second paragraph 
under the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Public 
and Indian Housing--Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' to support 
additional allocations under subparagraph

[[Page 138 STAT. 1534]]

(D) of paragraph (1) and subparagraph (B) of paragraph (4) of such 
heading to prevent the termination of rental assistance for families as 
a result of insufficient funding in the calendar year 2024 funding 
cycle: Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that 
were previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 152.  During the period covered by this Act, section 517 of 
title 10, United States Code, shall not apply with respect to the Coast 
Guard.
     This division may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2025''.

                         DIVISION B--EXTENSIONS

                    TITLE I--MISCELLANEOUS EXTENSIONS

SEC. 101. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
                        UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.

    Section 210G(i) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
124n(i)) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 20, 2024''.
SEC. 102. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  JOINT TASK FORCES.

    Section 708(b)(13) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
348(b)(13)) shall be applied by substituting ``December 20, 2024'' for 
``September 30, 2024''.
SEC. 103. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 227(a) of the Federal Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2015 
(6 U.S.C. 1525(a)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
inserting ``December 20, 2024''.
SEC. 104. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK 
                        COMMISSION.

    Section 6(g) of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Development Act (16 
U.S.C. 410y-4(g)) is amended by striking ``40'' and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting ``on December 20, 2024.''.
SEC. 105. EBT BENEFIT FRAUD PREVENTION.

    Section 501 of division HH of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2023 (7 U.S.C. 2016a), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)(A)(iii), by striking ``to the 
                maximum extent practicable,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (5)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
                      by striking ``October'' and inserting 
                      ``December'';
                          (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``to the 
                      maximum extent practicable,'';
                          (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' 
                      at the end;

[[Page 138 STAT. 1535]]

                          (iv) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
                      subparagraph (E);
                          (v) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
                      following:
                    ``(D) a comparison of State plans related to 
                reimbursement, prevention, and other relevant procedures 
                approved in accordance with subsection (b)(1)(A); and''; 
                and
                          (vi) in subparagraph (E) (as so redesignated), 
                      by inserting ``and proactively'' after 
                      ``consistently'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by striking ``September 30, 
        2024'' and inserting ``December 20, 2024''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(e) Comptroller General.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Reports. Examination.>>  In general.--Not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
        subsection, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
        Forestry of the Senate a report that examines risks related to 
        supplemental nutrition assistance program electronic benefit 
        transfer payment system security, including the risk of stolen 
        benefits through card skimming, card cloning, and other similar 
        methods.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Assessments.>> Contents.--The report under 
        paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of--
                    ``(A) the extent to which the Department of 
                Agriculture manages payment system security, including 
                risks related to stolen benefits, compared to leading 
                industry practices;
                    ``(B) the manner in which States, retailers, and 
                other relevant entities manage risks related to stolen 
                benefits;
                    ``(C) the oversight of and guidance provided by the 
                Secretary to States regarding stolen benefits; and
                    ``(D) recommendations and policy options for--
                          ``(i) improving how the Department of 
                      Agriculture and other relevant entities manage 
                      payment system security risks, including those 
                      related to stolen benefits; and
                          ``(ii) how the Department of Agriculture may 
                      best share those improvements with States, 
                      retailers, and other relevant entities.''.
SEC. 106. <<NOTE: Applicability. 16 USC 3851a note.>> EXTENSION OF 
                        FOREST SERVICE PARTICIPATION IN ACES 
                        PROGRAM.

    Section 8302(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 3851a(b)) 
shall be applied by substituting ``1 day after December 20, 2024'' for 
``October 1, 2023''.
SEC. 107. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> EXTENSION OF GOOD NEIGHBOR 
                        AUTHORITY.

    Section 8206(b)(2)(C)(ii) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 
2113a(b)(2)(C)(ii)) shall be applied by substituting ``1 day after 
December 20, 2024'' for ``October 1, 2024''.
SEC. 108. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF FOOD FOR PEACE ACT.

    The authorities provided by each provision of the Food for Peace Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.), as in effect on September 30, 2024, shall 
remain in effect through December 20, 2024.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1536]]

SEC. 109. OVERSEAS PAY COMPARABILITY AND LIMITATION.

    (a) In General.--The authority provided under section 1113 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 
1904) shall remain in effect through December 20, 2024.
    (b) Limitation.--The authority described in subsection (a) may not 
be used to pay an eligible member of the Foreign Service (as defined in 
section 1113(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 
111-32; 123 Stat. 1904)) a locality-based comparability payment (stated 
as a percentage) that exceeds two-thirds of the amount of the locality-
based comparability payment (stated as a percentage) that would be 
payable to such member under section 5304 of title 5, United States 
Code, if such member's official duty station were in the District of 
Columbia.
SEC. 110. PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION 
                        WITH THE REPUBLIC OF PALAU.

    (a) <<NOTE: 48 USC 1931 note.>> Federal Programs and Services 
Agreement With the Government of the Republic of Palau.--
During <<NOTE: Time period.>> the period beginning on October 1, 2024, 
and ending on the date on which a new Federal programs and services 
agreement with the Government of the Republic of Palau enters into 
force, any activities described in sections 132 and 221(a) of the 
Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States 
of America and the Government of the Republic of Palau set forth in 
section 201 of Public Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931 note) shall, with the 
mutual consent of the Government of the Republic of Palau, continue in 
the manner authorized and required for fiscal year 2024 under the 
amended agreements described in subsections (b) and (f) of section 462 
of that Compact.

    (b) Amendments Related to the 2024 Federal Programs and Services 
Agreement With the Republic of Palau.--
            (1) Section 204(e) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2024 (48 U.S.C. 1983(e)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by redesignating subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so 
                redesignated), by striking ``An agreement'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--An agreement''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Federal programs and services agreement with the 
        republic of palau.--Subparagraphs (A) and (D)(iii) of section 
        101(c)(2) of Public Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931(c)(2)) and 
        subsection (d)(2)(A) shall not apply to an agreement that would 
        amend, change, or terminate the agreement described in section 
        462(f) of the U.S.-Palau Compact.''.
            (2) Section 210(a)(2) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2024 (48 U.S.C. 1989(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as 
                subparagraph (F); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the 
                following:

[[Page 138 STAT. 1537]]

                    ``(E) with respect to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation, any applicable Federal programs and 
                services agreement between the United States and the 
                Republic of Palau; and''.
SEC. 111. <<NOTE: Applicability. 22 USC 2385 note.>> UNITED STATES 
                        AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CIVIL 
                        SERVICE ANNUITANT WAIVER.

    Section 625(j)(1)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2385(j)(1)(B)) shall be applied by striking ``October 1, 2010'' 
and inserting ``December 20, 2024''.
SEC. 112. UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
                        INSPECTOR GENERAL ANNUITANT WAIVER.

    The authorities provided under section 1015(b) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212; 124 Stat. 2332)--
            (1) shall remain in effect through December 20, 2024; and
            (2) may be used to facilitate the assignment of persons for 
        oversight of programs in countries with a humanitarian disaster 
        or complex emergency declaration.
SEC. 113. EXTENSION OF HONG KONG HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY ACT OF 
                        2019.

    Section 7(h) of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 
(Public Law 116-76; 22 U.S.C. 5701 note) is amended by striking ``the 
date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting ``December 20, 2024''.
SEC. 114. EXTENSION OF TRANSFERS OF AIR TRAFFIC SYSTEMS ACQUIRED 
                        WITH AIP FUNDING.

    Section 728(b) of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 (Public Law 
118-63) <<NOTE: 49 USC 44502 note.>>  is amended by striking ``October 
1, 2024'' and inserting ``December 20, 2024''.

                       TITLE II--HEALTH EXTENDERS

                        Subtitle A--Public Health

SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF PROGRAMS RELATING TO AUTISM.

    (a) Developmental Disabilities Surveillance and Research Program.--
Section 399AA(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i(e)) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``December 20, 
2024''.
    (b) Autism Education, Early Detection, and Intervention.--Section 
399BB(g) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i-1(g)) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``December 20, 
2024''.
    (c) Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee.--Section 399CC(f) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i-2(f)) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``December 20, 2024''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1538]]

SEC. 202. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PRIORITY REVIEW VOUCHERS 
                        TO ENCOURAGE TREATMENTS FOR RARE PEDIATRIC 
                        DISEASES.

    Section 529(b)(5) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
U.S.C. 360ff(b)(5)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' each 
place it appears and inserting ``December 20, 2024''.
SEC. 203. NO SURPRISES ACT IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING.

    Section 118(a) of title I of division BB of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260) <<NOTE: 134 Stat. 2889.>>  
is amended by striking ``through 2024'' and inserting ``through 
September 30, 2025''.

                          Subtitle B--Medicaid

SEC. 211. MEDICAID FUNDING FOR THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.

    Section 1108(g) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``and (5)'' and inserting ``, (5), and (14)''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(14) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  Additional increase for the 
        northern mariana islands.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall increase the 
                total amount otherwise determined under this subsection 
                for the Northern Mariana Islands for the period 
                beginning on October 1, 2022, and ending on September 
                30, 2024, by $27,100,000.
                    ``(B) Special rules.--The increase described in 
                subparagraph (A)--
                          ``(i) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  shall apply to 
                      the total amount certified by the Secretary under 
                      title XIX for payment to the Northern Mariana 
                      Islands for services attributable to fiscal year 
                      2023 or 2024, notwithstanding that payments for 
                      any such services are made by the Northern Mariana 
                      Islands in fiscal year 2025; and
                          ``(ii) shall be in addition to the amount 
                      calculated under paragraph (2) for the Northern 
                      Mariana Islands for fiscal years 2023 and 2024 and 
                      shall not be taken into account in calculating an 
                      amount under paragraph (2) for the Northern 
                      Mariana Islands for fiscal year 2025 or a 
                      subsequent fiscal year.''.

                          Subtitle C--Medicare

SEC. 221. REVISING PHASE-IN OF MEDICARE CLINICAL LABORATORY TEST 
                        PAYMENT CHANGES.

    (a) Revised Phase-in of Reductions From Private Payor Rate 
Implementation.--Section 1834A(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395m-1(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``2027'' and inserting 
        ``2028''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``2024'' and 
                inserting ``2025''; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1539]]

                    (B) in clause (iii), by striking ``2025 through 
                2027'' and inserting ``2026 through 2028''.

    (b) Revised Reporting Period for Reporting of Private Sector Payment 
Rates for Establishment of Medicare Payment Rates.--Section 
1834A(a)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m-1(a)(1)(B)) 
is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``2024'' and inserting 
        ``2025''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``2025'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``2026''.
SEC. 222. MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395iii(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``2022, $0'' and inserting ``2026, 
$3,197,000,000''.

                      TITLE III--VETERANS EXTENDERS

                         Subtitle A--Health Care

SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR COLLECTION OF COPAYMENTS FOR 
                        HOSPITAL CARE AND NURSING HOME CARE.

    Section 1710(f)(2)(B) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE NURSING HOME CARE TO 
                        CERTAIN VETERANS WITH SERVICE-CONNECTED 
                        DISABILITIES.

    Section 1710A(d) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF EXPANSION OF RURAL ACCESS NETWORK FOR 
                        GROWTH ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM OF THE 
                        DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 2(d) of the Sgt. Ketchum Rural Veterans Mental Health Act of 
2021 (Public Law 117-21; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) is amended by striking 
``2024'' and inserting ``2025''.
SEC. 304. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO PROVIDE VETERANS ACCESS TO 
                        COMPLEMENTARY AND INTEGRATIVE HEALTH 
                        PROGRAMS THROUGH ANIMAL THERAPY, 
                        AGRITHERAPY, SPORTS AND RECREATION 
                        THERAPY, ART THERAPY, AND POSTTRAUMATIC 
                        GROWTH PROGRAMS.

    Section 203(d)(1) of the Scott Hannon Veterans Mental Health Care 
Improvement Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-171; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) is 
amended by striking ``for a three-year period beginning on the 
commencement of the pilot program'' and inserting ``until September 30, 
2025''.
SEC. 305. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
                        DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
                        FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND.

    Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), as most recently amended 
by section 104 of division E of the Continuing

[[Page 138 STAT. 1540]]

Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public 
Law 117-180; 136 Stat. 2137), is amended by striking ``September 30, 
2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

                      Subtitle B--Memorial Affairs

SEC. 311. EXTENSION OF ENTITLEMENT TO MEMORIAL HEADSTONES AND 
                        MARKERS FOR COMMEMORATION OF VETERANS AND 
                        CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.

    Section 2306(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2024'' both places it appears and inserting 
``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 312. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO BURY REMAINS OF CERTAIN 
                        SPOUSES AND CHILDREN IN NATIONAL 
                        CEMETERIES.

    Section 2402(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 313. AUTHORITY FOR USE OF FLAT GRAVE MARKERS AT SANTA FE 
                        NATIONAL CEMETERY, NEW MEXICO.

    Section 2404(c)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a period at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) in the case of Santa Fe National Cemetery, New Mexico, 
        the Secretary may provide for flat grave markers in any section 
        of such cemetery in which flat markers were in use on December 
        22, 2023.''.

                        Subtitle C--Homelessness

SEC. 321. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE FOR 
                        SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING FOR DISABLED 
                        VETERANS RESIDING TEMPORARILY IN HOUSING 
                        OWNED BY A FAMILY MEMBER.

    Section 2102A(e) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 322. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING 
                        ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY GRANT PROGRAM.

    Section 2108(g) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 323. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR 
                        HOMELESS WOMEN VETERANS AND HOMELESS 
                        VETERANS WITH CHILDREN REINTEGRATION GRANT 
                        PROGRAM.

    Section 2021A(f)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2025''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1541]]

SEC. 324. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION 
                        FOR SERIOUSLY MENTALLY ILL AND HOMELESS 
                        VETERANS.

    (a) General Treatment.--Section 2031(b) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2025''.
    (b) Additional Services at Certain Locations.--Section 2033(d) of 
such title is amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 325. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR 
                        SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR VERY LOW-INCOME 
                        VETERAN FAMILIES IN PERMANENT HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Section 2044(e)(H) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2025''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 2044(e) of such title is amended 
by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (H) as paragraphs (1) through 
(8), respectively.
SEC. 326. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR GRANT PROGRAM FOR HOMELESS 
                        VETERANS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.

    Section 2061(d)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2025''.

                      Subtitle D--Other Authorities

SEC. 331. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSPORT INDIVIDUALS TO AND 
                        FROM DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
                        FACILITIES.

    Section 111A(a)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 332. EXTENSION OF TESTIMONIAL SUBPOENA AUTHORITY OF INSPECTOR 
                        GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                        AFFAIRS.

    Section 312(d)(7)(A) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``May 31, 2025'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 333. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO MAINTAIN REGIONAL OFFICE IN 
                        THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES.

    Section 315(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 334. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR MONTHLY 
                        ASSISTANCE ALLOWANCE FOR DISABLED VETERANS 
                        TRAINING IN PARALYMPIC AND OLYMPIC SPORTS 
                        PROGRAM.

    Section 322 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``the United States Olympic Committee'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the United States Olympic & 
        Paralympic Committee'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``Veterans Benefits 
        Administration'' and inserting ``Veterans Health 
        Administration''; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1542]]

            (3) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (4) to read as 
        follows:

    ``(4) <<NOTE: Time periods.>> There is authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this subsection the following:
            ``(A) For each of fiscal years 2010 through 2023, 
        $2,000,000.
            ``(B) For each of fiscal years 2024 through 2027, 
        $2,500,000.''.
SEC. 335. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REPORT ON EQUITABLE RELIEF 
                        PROVIDED DUE TO ADMINISTRATIVE ERROR.

    Section 503(c) of title 38, United States Code, is amended, in the 
second sentence, by striking ``December 31, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2025''.
SEC. 336. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN HOUSING LOAN FEES.

    The loan fee table in section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``November 15, 2031'' each place it appears 
and inserting ``November 29, 2031''.
SEC. 337. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY.

    Section 8118(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
SEC. 338. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENTS 
                        RELATING TO CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
                        DEPARTMENT.

    Section 7103 of the Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D. Veterans 
Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2020 (Public Law 116-
315) <<NOTE: 38 USC 309 note.>> is amended by striking ``for fiscal year 
2022 and each of the next three subsequent fiscal years'' and inserting 
``for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029''.

                       TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 401. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this 
division shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained 
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
            (2) for purposes of an allocation to the Committee on 
        Appropriations pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 1543]]

            (3) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.

    Approved September 26, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 9747:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 170 (2024):
            Sept. 25, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>