[105th Congress Public Law 277]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ277.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 2681]]

      

      
*Public Law 105-277
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making omnibus consolidated and emergency appropriations for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1999, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 21, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 4328]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999.>> Congress assembled,

             DIVISION A--OMNIBUS CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS

    That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the several departments, 
agencies, corporations and other organizational units of the Government 
for the fiscal year 1999, and for other purposes, namely:
      Sec. 101. (a) For programs, projects or activities in the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as follows, to be 
effective as if it had been enacted into law as the regular 
appropriations Act:

 <<NOTE: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
     and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999.>> AN ACT Making 
    appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1999, and for other purposes.

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,836,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service, shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel of the Department of Agriculture to carry out 
section 793(c)(1)(C) of Public Law 104-127: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to enforce section 
793(d) of Public Law 104-127.

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *Note: This is a typeset print of the original hand enrollment as 
signed by the President on October 21, 1998. The text is printed without 
corrections.
112 STAT. 2681-

112 STAT. 2681-

112 STAT. 2681-

PUBLIC LAW 105-277--OCT. 21, 1998

PUBLIC LAW 105-277--OCT. 21, 1998

PUBLIC LAW 105-277--OCT. 21, 1998

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-1]]

                          Executive Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, and the functions of 
the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $5,000 is for employment 
                    under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,620,000.

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                  Office of Budget and Program Analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,120,000.

                 Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to 
exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,551,000.

                  Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,283,000: Provided, 
That the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market cross-servicing 
activities of the National Finance Center.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded by this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-2]]

to the Department of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and 
activities of the Department which are included in this Act, and for the 
operation, maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, 
$132,184,000: Provided, That in the event an agency within the 
Department should require modification
of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer a share of 
that agency's appropriation made available by this Act to this 
appropriation, or may transfer a share of this appropriation to that 
agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 percent of 
the funds made available for space rental and related costs to or from 
this account. In addition, for construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the programs of the Department, where not 
otherwise provided, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended; 
making a total appropriation of $137,184,000.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 
42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to the 
Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be transferred to any 
agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                       Departmental Administration

    For Departmental Administration, $32,168,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of the 
Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies 
and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical 
and efficient work of the Department, including employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
        the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-3]]

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
by this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,668,000: Provided, That no other 
funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be available to 
the Department for support of activities of congressional relations: 
Provided further, That not less than $2,241,000 shall be transferred to 
agencies funded by this Act to maintain personnel at the agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the dissemination 
of agricultural information, and the coordination of information, work, 
and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, $8,138,000, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not 
to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $65,128,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed $100,000 for certain 
confidential operational expenses, including the payment of informants, 
to be expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to 
Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 <<NOTE: 7 USC 2270a.>> of Public Law 
97-98: Provided, That for fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, funds 
transferred to the Office of the Inspector General through forfeiture 
proceedings or from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund or 
the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as a participating 
agency, as an equitable share from the forfeiture of property in 
investigations in which the Office of the Inspector General 
participates, or through the granting of a Petition for Remission or 
Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this account for law 
enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector General Act of 
1978, to remain available until expended.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$29,194,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-4]]

   Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$65,757,000: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``Food and Nutrition Service, Food 
Program Administration'' for studies and evaluations: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627), the Census of 
Agriculture Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-113), and other laws, 
$103,964,000, of which up to $23,599,000 shall be available until 
expended for the Census of Agriculture: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

                      Agricultural Research Service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percentof 
the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $785,518,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available for temporary employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
<<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>> Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available for the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-5]]

operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
one for replacement only: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the 
construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and improvements, but 
unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing any one building 
shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or greenhouses which 
shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for ten buildings to be 
constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $500,000 each, and the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building or 
$250,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That the limitations 
on alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or 
replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting 
easements at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, including an 
easement to the University of Maryland to construct the Transgenic 
Animal Facility which upon completion shall be accepted by the Secretary 
as a gift: Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not 
apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 
24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That funds may be received 
from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual 
for the purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or 
research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by 
law.

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.
    In fiscal year 1999, the agency is authorized to charge fees, 
commensurate with the fair market value, for any permit, easement, 
lease, or other special use authorization for the occupancy or use of 
land and facilities (including land and facilities at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center) issued by the agency, as authorized by 
law, and such fees shall be credited to this account and shall remain 
available until expended for authorized purposes.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $56,437,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That funds 
may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any research 
facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $180,545,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-i); $21,932,000 for grants for cooperative forestry 
research (16 U.S.C. 582a-a7); $29,676,000 for

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-6]]

payments to the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University 
(7 U.S.C. 3222); $63,116,000 for special grants for agricultural 
research (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $15,048,000 for special grants for 
agricultural research on improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); 
$119,300,000 for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); 
$5,109,000 for the support of animal health and disease programs (7 
U.S.C. 3195); $750,000 for supplemental and alternative crops and 
products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $600,000 for grants for research pursuant to 
the Critical Agricultural Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and 
section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318), to 
remain available until expended; $3,000,000 for higher education 
graduate fellowship grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,350,000 for higher education 
challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); $1,000,000 for a higher 
education multicultural scholars program (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $2,850,000 for an 
education grants program for Hispanic-serving Institutions (7 U.S.C. 
3241); $500,000 for a secondary agriculture education program and two-
year postsecondary education (7 U.S.C. 3152 (h)); $4,000,000 for 
aquaculture grants (7 U.S.C. 3322); $8,000,000 for sustainable 
agriculture research and education (7 U.S.C. 5811); $9,200,000 for a 
program of capacity building grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) to colleges 
eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 
321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee University, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $1,552,000 for payments to the 1994 
Institutions pursuant to section 534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and 
$10,688,000 for necessary expenses of Research and Education Activities, 
of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109; in all, $481,216,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

               Native American Institutions Endowment Fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                          Extension Activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, to be 
distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under section 
208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' compensation 
costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail for cooperative 
extension agents and State extension directors, $276,548,000; payments 
for extension work at the 1994 Institutions under the Smith-Lever Act (7 
U.S.C. 343(b)(3)),
$2,060,000; payments for the nutrition and family education program for 
low-income areas under section 3(d) of the Act, $58,695,000; payments 
for the pest management program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$10,783,000; payments for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of 
the Act, $3,000,000; payments for the pesticide impact assessment 
program under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,214,000; payments to upgrade 
research, extension, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-7]]

teaching facilities at the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee 
University, as authorized by section 1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 
3222b), $8,426,000, to remain available until expended; payments for the 
rural development centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $908,000; 
payments for a groundwater quality program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $9,561,000; payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $9,000,000; payments for a food safety program under section 
3(d) of the Act, $7,365,000; payments for carrying out the provisions of 
the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, $3,192,000; payments for 
Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,714,000; 
payments for sustainable agriculture programs under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural health and safety education as 
authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 
2662), $2,628,000; payments for cooperative extension work by the 
colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-
326 and 328) and Tuskegee University, $25,843,000; and for Federal 
administration and coordination including administration of the Smith-
Lever Act, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-349), and 
section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), and 
to coordinate and provide program leadership for the extension work of 
the Department and the several States and insular possessions, 
$11,741,000; in all, $437,987,000: Provided, That funds hereby 
appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 1953, and 
section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to any State, 
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, 
Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa prior to availability 
of an equal sum from non-Federal sources for expenditure during the 
current fiscal year.

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; to 
discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act 
of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and to protect the 
environment, as authorized by law, $425,803,000, of which $4,105,000 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to 
the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions:  Provided,  That  no  
funds  shall  be  used  to  formulate  or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-8]]

administer a brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal year 
that does not require minimum matching by the States of at least 40 
percent: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
for field employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 
shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for the operation and 
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which 
two shall be for replacement only: Provided further, That, in addition, 
in emergencies which <<NOTE: 21 USC 129.>>  threaten any segment of the 
agricultural production industry of this country, the Secretary may 
transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or 
corporations of the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, to 
be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of 
contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
plants, and for expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 
1947, and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, and any 
unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the next preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration 
of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    In fiscal year 1999, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic and 
international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, or 
services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, without 
further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
     Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
1999, $88,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $7,700,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, and 
regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration and 
coordination of payments to States, including field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed $90,000

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-9]]

for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $48,831,000, including funds for the 
wholesale market development program for the design and development of 
wholesale and farmer market facilities for the major metropolitan areas 
of the country: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
       established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

    Not to exceed $60,730,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
             notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $10,998,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 
                                  1961.

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain under 
the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $26,787,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-10]]

    Not to exceed $42,557,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
                       Appropriations Committees.

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, $616,986,000, and in addition, 
$1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees collected for the 
cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 of Public 
Law 102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of the Egg Products 
Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for
the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign Agricultural Service, the Risk 
Management Agency, and the Commodity Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$714,499,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available for employment

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-11]]

pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available 
                   for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
                of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, and 
in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk 
from commercial markets because of: (1) the presence of products of 
nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances 
not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968 (7 
U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were not used in a 
manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling instructions 
provided at the time of use and the contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer, $450,000, to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained in this Act 
shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer whose milk was 
removed from commercial markets as a result of the farmer's willful 
failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal Government: 
Provided further, That this amount shall be transferred to the Commodity 
Credit Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized 
to utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy indemnity 
                             disbursements.

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $510,682,000, of which $425,031,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $1,648,276,000, of which $948,276,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $200,000,000 shall be for 
subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as 
authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; for emergency insured loans, 
$25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural disasters; and for 
boll weevil eradication program loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, 
$100,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $19,580,000, of which 
$6,758,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $62,630,000, 
of
which $11,000,000 shall be for

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-12]]

unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $17,480,000 shall be for subsidized 
guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as authorized by 
25 U.S.C. 488, $153,000; for emergency insured loans, $5,900,000 to meet 
the needs resulting from natural disasters; and for boll weevil 
eradication program loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $1,440,000.

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $219,861,000, of which $209,861,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                         Risk Management Agency

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 6933), 
$64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
                 agency, except as hereinafter provided.

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

    For fiscal year 1999, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed (estimated to be $8,439,000,000 in the President's 
fiscal year 1999 Budget Request (H. Doc. 105-177)), but not to exceed 
$8,439,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961 (15 
                            U.S.C. 713a-11).

    For fiscal year 1999, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, 
That expenses shall be for operations and maintenance costs only and 
that other hazardous waste management costs shall be paid for by the 
USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation in this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-13]]

                                TITLE II

                          CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, $693,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of conservation 
plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and water 
(including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special measures 
for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent floods and 
the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural related 
pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$641,243,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,990,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $9,025,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, 
that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 
2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance and related expenses to carry out programs 
authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control
Act of 1974 (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That no part of this 
appropriation may be expended for soil and water conservation operations 
under the Act of April 27, 1935 in demonstration projects: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That qualified local 
engineers may be temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the 
technical planning work of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-14]]

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1009), $10,368,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
     $110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing works 
and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 
and 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $99,443,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 may be available 
for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): Provided, That not to 
exceed $47,000,000 of this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is 
available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93-205), including cooperative efforts as contemplated 
by that Act to relocate endangered or threatened species to other 
 suitable habitats as may be necessary to expedite project construction.

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of April 27, 1935 
(16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 
3451-3461), $35,000,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b): Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be 
              available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized by the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-15]]

                                TITLE III

            RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

           Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the 
                  Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, and 1932, except for sections 
381E-H, 381N, and 381O of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f), $722,686,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $29,786,000 shall be for rural community programs described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act; 
of which $645,007,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs 
described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act, as provided in 7 U.S.C. 
1926(a) and 7 U.S.C. 1926C; and of which $47,893,000 shall be for the 
rural business and cooperative development programs described in section 
381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided, That of the amount appropriated for 
the rural business and cooperative development programs, not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be made available for a grant to a qualified national 
organization to provide technical assistance for rural transportation in 
order to promote economic development: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $16,215,000 shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act; and not to 
exceed $5,300,000 shall be for contracting with qualified national 
organizations for a circuit rider program to provide technical 
assistance for rural water systems: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $33,926,000 shall be available 
through June 30, 1999, for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-66, of which $1,844,000 shall be for 
rural community programs described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; of 
which $23,948,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs described in 
section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; of which $8,134,000 shall be for the 
rural business and cooperative development programs described in section 
381E(d)(3) of such Act.

                          Rural Housing Service

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, to 
be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as follows: 
$3,965,313,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as determined by the 
Secretary, of which $3,000,000,000 shall be

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-16]]

for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $25,001,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $100,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family 
housing loans; $20,000,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$114,321,000 for section 515 rental housing; $5,152,000 for section 524 
site loans; $16,930,000 for credit sales of acquired property, of which 
up to $5,001,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and $5,000,000 
for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $116,800,000, of which 
$2,700,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $8,808,000; section 538 multi-family housing 
guaranteed loans, $2,320,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$10,406,000; section 515 rental housing, $55,160,000; section 524 site 
loans, $17,000; credit sales of acquired property, $3,492,000, of which 
up to $2,416,000 may be for multi-family credit sales; and section 523 
self-help housing land development loans, $282,000: Provided, That
of the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, $10,380,000 shall be 
for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by 
Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 
1999, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes under 
this head.

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $360,785,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
                    Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, $583,397,000; and, in 
addition, such sums as may be necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) 
of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to 
carry out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of the 
Act: Provided, That of this amount, not more than $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 
per project for advances to nonprofit organizations or public agencies 
to cover direct costs (other than purchase price) incurred in purchasing 
projects pursuant to section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, 
That agreements entered into or renewed during fiscal year 1999 shall be 
funded for a five-year period, although the life of any such agreement 
           may be extended to fully utilize amounts obligated.

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $26,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-17]]

103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not obligated for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 1999, they 
  shall remain available for other authorized purposes under this head.

    For grants and contracts for housing for domestic farm labor, very 
low-income housing repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, and rural housing preservation 
made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 
1479(c), 1486, 1490e, and 1490m, $41,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,200,000 
shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized 
by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 
1999, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes under 
                               this head.

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, and cooperative 
agreements, $60,978,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That the Administrator may expend not more than $10,000 to 
provide modest nonmonetary awards to non-USDA employees.

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,615,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans of $33,000,000: Provided further, That through 
June 30, 1999, of the total amount appropriated, $3,215,520 shall be 
available for the cost of direct loans for empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities, as authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, to subsidize gross obligations for 
the principal amount of direct loans, $7,246,000: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 1999, they shall remain available for other 
authorized purposes under this head.

    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $3,482,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-18]]

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$15,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,783,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit payments 
in fiscal year 1999, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $3,783,000 shall not be obligated and 
                        $3,783,000 are rescinded.

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $3,300,000, of which $1,300,000 shall be available for 
cooperative agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural 
areas program and $250,000 shall be available for an agribusiness and 
                    cooperative development program.

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act; section 1323 of the Food Security Act of 
1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities relating to 
the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946; for 
activities with institutions concerning the development and operation of 
agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; $25,680,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $260,000 may be used for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

  Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation 
                             Revolving Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$3,500,000 is appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Corporation Revolving Fund.

                         Rural Utilities Service

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $71,500,000; 5

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-19]]

percent rural telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $295,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, 
rural electric, $700,000,000 and
rural telecommunications, $120,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of direct loans, $16,667,000; cost 
of municipal rate loans, $25,842,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $810,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower 
interest rates may exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities 
                    Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs. During fiscal year 1999 and within the 
resources and authority available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $157,509,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
$4,174,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities Service, Salaries and 
                               Expenses''.

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., $12,680,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
available for loans and grants for telemedicine and distance learning 
services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of direct loans shall 
  be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $33,000,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-20]]

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$554,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$9,176,897,000, to remain available through September 30, 2000, of which 
$4,128,747,000 is hereby appropriated and $5,048,150,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: 
Provided further, That up to $4,300,000 shall be available for 
independent verification of school food
service claims: Provided further, That none of the funds under this 
heading shall be available unless the value of bonus commodities 
provided under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (49 Stat. 774, 
chapter 641; 7 U.S.C. 612c), and section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 
1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431) is included in meeting the minimum commodity 
assistance requirement of section 6(g) of the National School Lunch Act 
                          (42 U.S.C. 1755(g)).

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,924,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: Provided 
further, That of the total amount available, the Secretary shall 
obligate $10,000,000 for the farmers' market nutrition program within 45 
days of the enactment of this Act, and an additional $5,000,000 for the 
farmers' market nutrition program from any funds not needed to maintain 
current caseload levels: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC 
clinics except those that have an announced policy of prohibiting 
smoking within the space used to carry out the program: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this account shall be 
available for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance with 
the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements specified in 
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966: Provided further, That 
State agencies required to procure infant formula using a competitive 
bidding system may use funds appropriated by this Act to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-21]]

purchase infant formula under a cost containment contract entered into 
after September 30, 1996, only if the contract was awarded to the bidder 
offering the lowest net price, as defined by section 17(b)(20) of the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966, unless the State agency demonstrates to the 
satisfaction of the Secretary that the weighted average retail price for 
different brands of infant formula in the State does not vary by more 
                             than 5 percent.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $22,585,106,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this head shall be used for studies and 
evaluations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and Training 
under this head shall remain available until expended, as authorized by 
section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) and the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, $131,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
                         donated to the program.

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note), and section 
311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $141,081,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2000.

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $108,561,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance
in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud and other 
violations of law and of which $2,000,000 shall be available for 
obligation only after promulgation of a final rule to curb vendor 
related fraud: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $150,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-22]]

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to sacoordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $136,203,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the International Development Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 
2392).
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
       promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1704, 1721-1726a, 1727-1727e, 1731-1736g-3, 
and 1737), as follows: (1) $203,475,000 for Public Law 480 title I 
credit, including Food for Progress programs; (2) $16,249,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985; (3) $837,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title II of said Act; and (4) $25,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title III of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 15 percent of the 
funds made available to carry out any title of said Act may be used to 
carry out any other title of said Act: Provided further, That such sums 
shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, including the cost of modifying credit 
agreements under said Act, $176,596,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, to 
the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are utilized, 
$1,850,000, of which $1,035,000 may be transferredto and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales 
Manager'' and $815,000 may be transferred

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-23]]

to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries 
                             and Expenses''.

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,820,000; 
to cover common
overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform 
Act of 1990, of which $3,231,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales 
Manager'' and $589,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, 
not to exceed $25,000; $1,103,140,000, of which not to exceed 
$132,273,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this appropriation and remain 
available until expended: Provided, That fees derived from applications 
received during fiscal year 1999 shall be subject to the fiscal year 
1999 limitation: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be 
used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user fees 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated: (1) $231,580,000 shall be for the Center for Food Safety 
and Applied Nutrition and related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs, of which, and notwithstanding section 409(h)(5)(A) 
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), an 
amount of $500,000 shall be made available for the development of 
systems, regulations, and pilot programs, if any, that would be required 
to permit full implementation, consistent with section 409(h)(5) of that 
Act, in fiscal year 2000 of the food contact substance notification 
program under section 409(h) of such Act; (2) $291,981,000 shall be for 
the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities 
in the Officeof Regulatory Affairs; (3) $125,095,000 shall be for the 
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for related field 
activities in the Office

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-24]]

of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $41,973,000 shall be for the Center for 
Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (5) $145,736,000 shall be for the Center for Devices 
and Radiological Health and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $31,579,000 shall be for the National Center 
for Toxicological Research; (7) $34,000,000 shall be for the Office of 
Tobacco; (8) $25,855,000 shall be for Rent and Related activities, other 
than the amounts paid to the General Services Administration; (9) 
$88,294,000 shall be for payments to the General Services Administration 
for rent and related costs; and (10) $87,047,000 shall be for other 
activities, including the Office of the Commissioner, the Office of 
Policy, the Office of External Affairs, the Office of Operations, the 
Office of Management and Systems, and central services for these 
offices: Provided further, That funds may be transferred from one 
specified activity to another with the prior approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this account, to remain available 
                             until expended.

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $11,350,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, for reimbursement of 
interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance Corporation on 
obligations issued through 1994, as authorized, $2,565,000.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not to exceed 
$25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $61,000,000, including not 
to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided, That the Commission is authorized to charge reasonable fees to 
attendees of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-25]]

Commission sponsored educational events and symposia to cover the 
Commission's costs of providing those events and symposia, and 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration

    Not to exceed $35,800,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 1999 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 440 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 437 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec.  <<NOTE: 7 USC 1623a.>> 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the 
appropriations of the Department of Agriculture in this Act for research 
and service work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 427 and 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said 
Acts and chapter.

    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b.>> 705. New obligational authority provided 
for the following appropriation items in this Act shall remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, the contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit fly 
program, integrated systems acquisition project, and up to $2,000,000 
for costs associated with collocating regional offices; Farm Service 
Agency, salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; 
and Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training 
program.

    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field automation 
and information management project; funds appropriated for rental 
payments; funds for the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund in 
the Cooperative State Research, 
Education, and Extension Service; and funds for the competitive research 
grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-26]]

    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to 
carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This does 
not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
     <<NOTE: 7 USC 612c note.>> Sec. 709. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, commodities acquired by the Department in 
connection with Commodity Credit Corporation and section 32 price 
support operations may be used, as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 
7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide commodities to individuals in cases of 
hardship as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service that exceed 
14 percent of total Federal funds provided under each award: Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 1462 of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7
U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
Extension Service shall be available to pay full allowable indirect 
costs for each grant awarded under the Small Business Innovation 
Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219 (15 U.S.C. 638).

    Sec. 712. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 713. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1999 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1999 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; and 
the rural economic development loans program account.
    Sec. 714. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1999 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 715. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service; 
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-27]]

and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between the Agricultural Marketing 
Service, the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration or 
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a State or Cooperator 
to carry out agricultural marketing programs or to carry out programs to 
protect the Nation's animal and plant resources.
    Sec. 716. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, the Natural Resources Conservation Service may enter into 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with a State agency or 
subdivision, or a public or private organization, for the acquisition of 
goods or services, including personal services, to carry out natural 
resources conservation activities: Provided, That Commodity Credit 
Corporation funds obligated for such purposes shall not exceed the level 
obligated by the Commodity Credit Corporation for such purposes in 
fiscal year 1998.
    Sec. 717. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5 percent of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank or to 
maintain any account or subaccount within the accounting records of the 
Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not specifically been 
authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to the 
Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural Telephone 
Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of current 
requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set forth for 
financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990.
    Sec. 718. Hereafter, none of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to provide assistance to, or to pay the salaries of 
personnel to carry out a market promotion/market access program pursuant 
to section 203 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623) 
that provides assistance to the United States Mink Export Development 
Council or any mink industry trade association.
    Sec. 719. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,800,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task forces 
of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to comply with 
negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
awarded grants: Provided, That interagency funding is authorized to 
carry out the purposes of the National Drought Policy Commission.
    Sec. 720. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918
of Public Law 104-127, the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform 
Act.

    Sec. 721. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or otherwise 
make available to any non-Department of Agriculture employee questions 
or responses to questions that are a result of information requested for 
the appropriations hearing process.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-28]]

    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer without the prior approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 724. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, 
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
any project or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; 
(4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes offices, programs, 
or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
activities presently performed by Federal employees; unless the 
Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or 
projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, 
projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 
percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general savings 
from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries and 
expenses of personnel to carry out section 793 of Public Law 104-127, 
with the exception of funds made available under that section on January 
1, 1997.
    Sec. 726. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out an environmental quality incentives program authorized by 
sections 334-341 of Public Law 104-127 in excess of $174,000,000.
    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise available to 
the Department of Agriculture may be used to administer the provision of 
contract payments to a producer under the Agricultural Market Transition 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for contract acreage

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-29]]

on which wild rice is planted unless the contract payment is reduced by 
an acre for each contract acre planted to wild rice.
    Sec. 728. The Federal facility located in Stuttgart, Arkansas, and 
known as the ``United States National Rice Germplasm Evaluation and 
Enhancement Center'', shall be known and designated as the ``Dale 
Bumpers National Rice Research Center'': Provided, That any reference in 
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to such federal facility shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``Dale Bumpers National Rice Research Center''.
    Sec. 729. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Agriculture, subject to the reprogramming requirements established by 
this Act, may transfer up to $26,000,000 in discretionary funds made 
available by this Act among programs of the Department, not otherwise 
appropriated for a specific purpose or a specific location, for 
distribution to or for the benefit of the
Lower Mississippi Delta Region, as defined in Public Law 100-460, prior 
to normal state or regional allocation of funds: Provided, That any 
funds made available through Chapter Four of Subtitle D of Title XII of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa et seq.) may be included 
in any amount reprogrammed under this section if such funds are used for 
a purpose authorized by such Chapter: Provided further, That any funds 
made available from ongoing programs of the Department of Agriculture 
used for the benefit of the Lower Mississippi Delta Region shall be 
counted toward the level cited in this section.

    Sec. 730. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to enroll in excess of 120,000 acres in the fiscal year 1999 wetlands 
reserve program as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3837.
    Sec. 731. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to carry out the emergency food assistance program authorized by section 
27(a) of the Food Stamp Act if such program exceeds $90,000,000.
    Sec. 732. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses 
of personnel to carry out the provisions of section 401 of Public Law 
105-185.
    Sec. 733. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the City of 
Big Spring, Texas shall be eligible to participate in rural housing 
programs administered by the Rural Housing Service.
    Sec. 734. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Municipality of Carolina, Puerto Rico shall be eligible for grants and 
loans administered by the Rural Utilities Service.
    Sec. 735. Notwithstanding section 381A of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009), the definitions of rural areas 
for certain business programs administered by the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service and the community facilities programs administered 
by the Rural Housing Service shall be those provided for in statute and 
regulations prior to the enactment of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 736. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to carry out any commodity purchase program 
that would prohibit eligibility or participation by farmer-owned 
cooperatives.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-30]]

    Sec. 737. Section 512(d)(4)(D)(iii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360b(d)(4)(D)(iii)) is amended by inserting 
before the semicolon the following: ``, except that for purposes of this 
clause, antibacterial ingredient or animal drug does not include the 
ionophore or arsenical classes of animal drugs''.
    Sec. 738. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Secretary by this Act, any other Act, or any other 
source may be used to issue the final rule to implement the amendments 
to Federal milk marketing orders required by subsection (a)(1) of 
section 143 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7253), 
other than during the period of February 1, 1999, through April 4, 1999, 
and only if the actual implementation of the amendments as part of 
Federal milk marketing orders takes effect on October 1, 1999, 
notwithstanding the penalties that would otherwise be imposed under 
subsection (c) of such section.
    (b) None of such funds may be used to designate the State of 
California as a separate Federal milk marketing order under subsection 
(a)(2) of such section, other than during the period beginning on the 
date of the issuance of the final rule referred to in subsection (a) 
through September 30, 1999.
    (c) For purposes of this section, a rule shall be considered to be a 
final rule when the rule is submitted to Congress as required by chapter 
8 of title 5, United States
Code, to permit congressional review of agency rulemaking and before the 
Secretary of Agriculture conducts the producer referendum required under 
section 8c(19) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(19)), 
reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 
1937.

    Sec. 739. Whenever the Secretary of Agriculture announces the basic 
formula price for milk for purposes of Federal milk marketing orders 
issued under section 8c of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 
608c), reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937, the Secretary shall include in the announcement an 
estimate, stated on a per hundredweight basis, of the costs incurred by 
milk producers, including transportation and marketing costs, to produce 
milk in the different regions of the United States.
    Sec. 740. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to carry out a conservation farm option program, as authorized by 
section 335 of Public Law 104-127.
     <<NOTE: 7 USC 2279 note.>> Sec. 741. Waiver of Statute of 
Limitations. (a) To the extent permitted by the Constitution, any civil 
action to obtain relief with respect to the discrimination alleged in an 
eligible complaint, if commenced not later than 2 years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, shall not be barred by any statute of 
limitations.

    (b) The complainant may, in lieu of filing a civil action, seek a 
determination on the merits of the eligible complaint by the Department 
of Agriculture if such complaint was filed not later than 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act. The Department of Agriculture shall--
            (1) provide the complainant an opportunity for a hearing on 
        the record before making that determination;
            (2) award the complainant such relief as would be afforded 
        under the applicable statute from which the eligible complaint 
        arose notwithstanding any statute of limitations; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-31]]

            (3) to the maximum extent practicable within 180 days after 
        the date a determination of an eligible complaint is sought 
        under this subsection conduct an investigation, issue a written 
        determination and propose a resolution in accordance with this 
        subsection.

    (c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), if an eligible claim is 
denied administratively, the claimant shall have at least 180 days to 
commence a cause of action in a Federal court of competent jurisdiction 
seeking a review of such denial.
    (d) The United States Court of Federal Claims and the United States 
District Court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over--
            (1) any cause of action arising out of a complaint with 
        respect to which this section waives the statute of limitations; 
        and
            (2) any civil action for judicial review of a determination 
        in an administrative proceeding in the Department of Agriculture 
        under this section.

    (e) As used in this section, the term ``eligible complaint'' means a 
nonemployment related complaint that was filed with the Department of 
Agriculture before July 1, 1997 and alleges discrimination at any time 
during the period beginning on January 1, 1981 and ending December 31, 
1996--
            (1) in violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 
        U.S.C. 1691 et seq.) in administering--
                    (A) a farm ownership, farm operating, or emergency 
                loan funded from the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
                Program Account; or
                    (B) a housing program established under title V of 
                the Housing Act of 1949; or
            (2) in the administration of a commodity program or a 
        disaster assistance program.

    (f) This section shall apply in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter.
    (g) The standard of review for judicial review of an agency action 
with respect to an eligible complaint is de novo review. Chapter 5 of 
title 5 of the United States Code shall apply with respect to an agency 
action under this section with respect to an eligible complaint, without 
regard to section 554(a)(1) of that title.

     <<NOTE: 7 USC 2279d.>> Sec. 742. In any claim brought under the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and filed with the Secretary of Agriculture 
after January 1994 resulting in a finding that a farmer was subjected to 
discrimination under any farm loan program or activity conducted by the 
United States Department of Agriculture in violation of section 504 of 
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be liable for compensatory damages. Such liability 
shall apply to any administrative action brought before the date of 
enactment of this Act, but only if the action is brought within the 
applicable statute of limitations and the complainant sought or seeks 
compensatory damages while the action is pending.

    Sec. 743. Public Law 102-237, Title X, Section 1013(a) and (b) (7 
U.S.C. 426 note) is amended by striking ``, to the extent practicable,'' 
in each instance in which it appears.
    Sec. 744. Funds made available for conservation operations by this 
or any other Act, including prior-year balances, shall be available for 
financial assistance and technical assistance for the purpose of 
constructing the Franklin County Lake Project,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-32]]

Mississippi, in the amounts earmarked in appropriations report language.
    Sec. 745. Section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926d) is amended by inserting ``25 percent 
in'' in lieu of ``equal'' in subsection (b), and by inserting 
``$20,000,000'' in lieu of ``$15,000,000'' in subsection (d).
    Sec. 746. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate, or to 
plan to close or relocate, the Food and Drug Administration Division of 
Drug Analysis in St. Louis, Missouri.
     <<NOTE: 7 USC 1622 note.>> Sec. 747. None of the funds made 
available by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used 
to carry out section 302(h) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1622(h)) unless the Secretary of Agriculture inspects and 
certifies agricultural processing equipment, and imposes a fee for the 
inspection and certification, in a manner that is similar to the 
inspection and certification of agricultural products under that 
section, as determined by the Secretary: Provided, That this provision 
shall not affect the authority of the Secretary to carry out the Federal 
Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Poultry Products 
Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.), or the Egg Products Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq.).

     <<NOTE: 7 USC 1508 note.>> Sec. 748. Notwithstanding the provisions 
of section 508(b)(5)(A) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1508(b)(5)(A)), for the 1999 reinsurance and subsequent reinsurance 
years, no producer shall pay more than $50 per crop per county as an 
administrative fee for catastrophic risk protection under section 
508(b)(5)(A) of the Act.

    Sec. 749. That notwithstanding section 4703(d)(1) of title 5, United 
States Code, the personnel management demonstration project established 
in the Department of Agriculture, as described at 55 FR 9062 and amended 
at 61 FR 9507 and 61 FR 49178, shall be continued indefinitely and 
become effective upon enactment of this Act.
     <<NOTE: 7 USC 1762 note.>> Sec. 750. Strike the last sentence under 
the heading of Title IV--International Programs, Foreign Agricultural 
Service of Public Law 100-202 (101 STAT. 1329 et seq.) and insert in 
lieu thereof the following: ``On or after August 1, 1998 such 
individuals employed by contract to perform such services shall not, by 
virtue of such employment, be considered to be employees of the United 
States Government for purposes of any law administered by the Office of 
Personnel Management. Such individuals may be considered employees 
within the meaning of the Federal Employee Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. 
8101 et seq.''.

    Sec. 751. Section 1237D(c)(1) of subchapter C of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 <<NOTE: 16 USC 3837d.>> is amended by inserting after 
``perpetual'' the following ``or 30-year''.

    Sec. 752. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3837.>> Section 1237(b)(2) of subchapter C 
of the Food Security Act of 1985 is amended by adding the following:
                    ``(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), to the 
                maximum extent practicable should be interpreted to mean 
                that acceptance of wetlands reserve program bids may be 
                in proportion to landowner interest expressed in program 
                options.''.

    Sec. 753. (a) Section 3(d)(3) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable 
Resources Research Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1642(d)(3)) (as amended by 
section 253(b) of the Agricultural Research,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-33]]

Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998) is amended by striking 
``The Secretary'' and inserting ``At the request of the Governor of the 
State of Maine, New Hampshire, New York, or Vermont, the Secretary''.
    (b) Section 7(e)(2) of the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer 
Information Act (7 U.S.C. 4606(e)(2)) (as amended by section 605(f)(3) 
of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 
1998) is amended by striking ``$0.0075'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``$0.01''.
    (c)(1) Section 793(c)(2)(B) of the Federal Agriculture Improvement 
and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 2204f(c)(2)(B)) is amended--
            (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in clause (iv), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(v) a State agricultural experiment 
                      station.''.

    (2) Section 401(d) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621(d)) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) a State agricultural experiment station.''.

    (d) Section 3(d) of the Hatch Act of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 361c(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``No'' and inserting 
        ``Except as provided in paragraph (4), no''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Territories.--In lieu of the matching funds 
        requirement of paragraph (1), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
        the Virgin Islands, and Guam shall be subject to the same 
        matching funds requirements as those applicable to an eligible 
        institution under section 1449 of the National Agricultural 
        Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
        3222d).''.

    (e) Section 3(e) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(e)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``paragraph (4) and'' 
        after ``provided in''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Territories.--In lieu of the matching funds 
        requirement of paragraph (1), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
        the Virgin Islands, and Guam shall be subject to the same 
        matching funds requirements as those applicable to an eligible 
        institution under section 1449 of the National Agricultural 
        Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
        3222d).''.

     <<NOTE: Effective date. 7 USC 343 note.>> (f) The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998.

    Sec. 754. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who 
prepare or submit appropriations language as part of the President's 
Budget submission to the Congress of the United States for programs 
under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittees on 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies that assumes 
revenues or reflects a reduction from the previous

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-34]]

year due to user fees proposals that have not been enacted into law 
prior to the submission of the Budget unless such Budget submission 
identifies which additional spending reductions should occur in the 
event the users fees proposals are not enacted prior to the date of the 
convening of a committee of conference for the fiscal year 2000 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 755. (a) Section 203(h) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 
1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(h)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``Shell eggs packed under the voluntary grading program of the 
Department of Agriculture shall not have been shipped for sale previous 
to being packed under the program, as determined under a regulation 
promulgated by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, shall submit a joint status report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that 
describes actions taken by the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services--
            (1) to enhance the safety of shell eggs and egg products;
            (2) to prohibit the grading, under the voluntary grading 
        program of the Department of Agriculture, of shell eggs 
        previously shipped for sale; and
            (3) to assess the feasibility and desirability of applying 
        to all shell eggs the prohibition on repackaging to enhance food 
        safety, consumer information, and consumer awareness.

    Sec. 756. Expenses for computer-related activities of the Department 
of Agriculture funded through the Commodity Credit Corporation pursuant 
to section 161(b)(1)(A) of Public Law 104-127 in fiscal year 1999 shall 
not exceed $65,000,000: Provided, That section 4(g) of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation Charter Act is amended <<NOTE: 15 USC 714b.>>  by 
striking $193,000,000 and inserting $188,000,000.

    Sec. 757. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture may use funds for tree 
assistance made available under Public Law 105-174, to carry out a tree 
assistance program to owners of trees that were lost or destroyed as a 
result of a disaster or emergency that was declared by the President or 
the Secretary of Agriculture during the period beginning May 1, 1998, 
and ending August 1, 1998, regardless of whether the damage resulted in 
loss or destruction after August 1, 1998.
    (b) Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary shall carry out the 
program, to the maximum extent practicable, in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the tree assistance program established under part 783 
of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations.

    (c) A person shall be presumed eligible for assistance under the 
program if the person demonstrates to the Secretary that trees owned by 
the person were lost or destroyed by May 31, 1999, as a direct result of 
fire blight infestation that was caused by a disaster or emergency 
described in subsection (a).
    Sec. 758. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to establish an Office of Community Food 
Security or any similar office within the United States Department of 
Agriculture without the prior approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 759. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city of 
Vineland, New Jersey, shall be eligible for programs

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-35]]

administered by the Rural Housing Service and the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service.
    Sec. 760. (a)(1) For purposes of this section, the term 
``Commission'' means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
    (2) For purposes of this section, the term ``qualifying hybrid 
instrument or swap agreement'' means a hybrid instrument or swap 
agreement that--
            (A) was entered into before the start of the restraint 
        period or is entered into during the restraint period; and
            (B) is exempt under part 34 or part 35 of title 17, Code of 
        Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 1998), qualifies 
        for the safe harbor contained in the Policy Statement of the 
        Commission regarding swap agreements published in the Federal 
        Register on July 21, 1989 (54 Fed. Reg. 30694), or qualifies for 
        the exclusion set forth in the Statutory Interpretation of the 
        Commission concerning certain hybrid instruments published in 
        the Federal Register on April 11, 1990 (55 Fed. Reg. 13582).

    (3) For purposes of this section, the term ``restraint period'' 
means the period--
            (A) beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (B) ending on March 30, 1999, or the first date on which 
        legislation is enacted that authorizes appropriations for the 
        Commission for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2000, whichever 
        occurs first.

    (b) During the restraint period, the Commission may not propose or 
issue any rule or regulation, or issue any interpretation or policy 
statement, that restricts or regulates activity in a qualifying hybrid 
instrument or swap agreement.
    (c) Notwithstanding subsection (b), during the restraint period, the 
Commission may--
            (1) act on a petition for exemptive relief under section 
        4(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6(c));
            (2) enter such cease and desist orders and take such 
        enforcement action, including the imposition of sanctions, as 
        the Commission considers necessary to enforce any provision of 
        the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) or title 17, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, in connection with a qualifying 
        hybrid instrument or swap agreement, to the extent such 
        provision is otherwise applicable to that qualifying hybrid 
        instrument or swap agreement or a transaction involving that 
        qualifying hybrid instrument or swap agreement;
            (3) take such action as the Commission considers appropriate 
        with regard to agricultural trade options; and
            (4) take such action as the Commission considers appropriate 
        to respond to a market emergency.

    (d)(1) The legal status of contracts involving a qualifying hybrid 
instrument or swap agreement shall not differ from the legal status 
afforded such contracts during the period--
            (A) beginning on--
                    (i) in the case of swap agreements, July 21, 1989, 
                which was the date on which the Commission adopted a 
                Policy Statement regarding swap agreements (54 Fed. Reg. 
                30694); and
                    (ii) in the case of hybrid instruments, April 11, 
                1990, which was the date that the Statutory 
                Interpretation of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-36]]

                the Commission concerning hybrid instruments was 
                published in the Federal Register; and
            (B) ending on January 1, 1998.

    (2) Neither the comment letter of the Commission submitted on 
February 26, 1998, to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding 
the proposal known as ``Broker-Dealer Lite'', nor the Concept Release of 
the Commission regarding over-the-counter derivatives published in the 
Federal Register on May 12, 1998 (63 Fed. Reg. 26114), shall alter or 
affect the legal status of a qualifying hybrid instrument or swap 
agreement under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
    (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed as reflecting or 
implying a determination that a qualifying hybrid instrument or swap 
agreement, or a transaction involving a qualifying hybrid instrument or 
swap agreement, is subject to the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 761. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used to carry out provision of section 
612 of Public Law 105-185.
    Sec. 762. Section 136 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7236) is amended by striking ``1.25 cents'' each place it appears 
in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting ``3 cents''.
    Sec. 763. In implementing section 1124 of subtitle C of title XI of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall:
    (a) provide $18,000,000 to the states for distribution of emergency 
aid to individuals with family incomes below the federal poverty level 
who have been adversely affected utilizing Federal Emergency Management 
Agency guidelines;
    (b) transfer to the Secretary of Commerce for obligation and 
expenditure (1) $15,000,000 for programs pursuant to title IX of Public 
Law 91-304, as amended, of which six percent may be available for 
administrative costs; (2) $5,000,000 for the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
program as provided by the Trade Act of 1974, as amended; and (3) 
$7,000,000 for disaster research and prevention pursuant to section 
402(d) of Public Law 94-265; and

    (c) transfer to the Administrator of the Small Business 
Administration for obligation and expenditure, $5,000,000 for the cost 
of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, as 
amended, for eligible small businesses.
     <<NOTE: 42 USC 7671c.>> Sec. 764. (a) Section 604 of the Clean Air 
Act is amended by inserting at the end the following:
    ``(h) Methyl Bromide.--Notwithstanding subsection (d) and section 
604(b), the Administrator shall not terminate production of methyl 
bromide prior to January 1, 2005. The Administrator shall promulgate 
rules for reductions in, and terminate the production, importation, and 
consumption of, methyl bromide under a schedule that is in accordance 
with, but not more stringent than, the phaseout schedule of the Montreal 
Protocol Treaty as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
subsection.''.

    (b) Section 604(d) of the Clean Air Act is amended by inserting at 
the end the following:
            ``(5) Sanitation and food protection.--To the extent 
        consistent with the Montreal Protocol's quarantine and 
        preshipment provisions, the Administrator shall exempt the 
        production, importation, and consumption of methyl bromide to 
        fumigate commodities entering or leaving the United States or 
        any State (or political subdivision thereof) for purposes of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-37]]

        compliance with Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 
        requirements or with any international, Federal, State, or local 
        sanitation or food protection standard.
            ``(6) Critical uses.--To the extent consistent with the 
        Montreal Protocol, the Administrator, after notice and the 
        opportunity for public comment, and after consultation with 
        other departments or instrumentalities of the Federal Government 
        having regulatory authority related to methyl bromide, including 
        the Secretary of Agriculture, may exempt the production, 
        importation, and consumption of methyl bromide for critical 
        uses.''.

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 7671c.>> (c) Section 604(e) of the Clean Air Act is 
amended by inserting at the end the following:
            ``(3) Methyl bromide.--Notwithstanding the phaseout and 
        termination of production of methyl bromide pursuant to section 
        604(h), the Administrator may, consistent with the Montreal 
        Protocol, authorize the production of limited quantities of 
        methyl bromide, solely for use in developing countries that are 
        Parties to the Copenhagen Amendments to the Montreal 
        Protocol.''.

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 590h note.>> Sec. 765. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, permanent employees of county committees employed on 
or after October 1, 1998, pursuant to 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and 
Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) shall be considered as having 
Federal Civil Service status only for the purpose of applying for the 
United States Department of Agriculture Civil Service vacancies.

    Sec. 766. For grants for the rural empowerment zone and enterprise 
communities programs, an additional $15,000,000 is hereby appropriated, 
to remain available until expended, of which $10,000,000 is for grants 
for entities designated under section 1391(g) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 for the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out a second 
round of the empowerment zone program in rural areas; and of which 
$5,000,000 is for grants for rural enterprise communities for the 
Secretary of Agriculture to designate not more than 20 additional rural 
enterprise communities provided that such communities meet the 
designation and eligibility requirements of part I of subchapter U of 
chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986: Provided, That the 
designation of rural enterprise communities pursuant to this section 
shall be solely for the purpose of this section and not for tax 
treatment under the Internal Revenue Code: Provided further, That these 
funds are in addition to any other funds made available for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities.

                     TITLE VIII--AGRICULTURAL CREDIT

    Sec. 801. Section 373 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2008h) is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following:
    ``(b) Prohibition of Loans for Borrowers That Have Received Debt 
Forgiveness.--
            ``(1) Prohibitions.--Except as provided in paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) the Secretary may not make a loan under this 
                title to a borrower that has received debt forgiveness 
                on a loan made or guaranteed under this title; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-38]]

                    ``(B) the Secretary may not guarantee a loan under 
                this title to a borrower that has received--
                          ``(i) debt forgiveness after April 4, 1996, on 
                      a loan made or guaranteed under this title; or
                          ``(ii) received debt forgiveness on more than 
                      3 occasions on or before April 4, 1996.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may make a direct 
                or guaranteed farm operating loan for paying annual farm 
                or ranch operating expenses of a borrower who--
                          ``(i) was restructured with a write-down under 
                      section 353; or
                          ``(ii) is current on payments under a 
                      confirmed reorganization plan under chapters 11, 
                      12, or 13 of Title 11 of the United States Code.
                    ``(B) Emergency loans.--The Secretary may make an 
                emergency loan under section 321 to a borrower that--
                          ``(i) on or before April 4, 1996, received not 
                      more than 1 debt forgiveness on a loan made or 
                      guaranteed under this title; and
                          ``(ii) after April 4, 1996, has not received 
                      debt forgiveness on a loan made or guaranteed 
                      under this title.''.

    Sec. 802. Section 324(d) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1964(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(d) All loans'' and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(d) Repayment.--
            ``(1) In general.-- All loans''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) No basis for denial of loan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary shall not deny a loan under this subtitle to a 
                borrower by reason of the fact that the borrower lacks a 
                particular amount of collateral for the loan if the 
                Secretary is reasonably certain that the borrower will 
                be able to repay the loan.
                    ``(B) Refusal to pledge available collateral.--The 
                Secretary may deny or cancel a loan under this subtitle 
                if a borrower refuses to pledge available collateral on 
                request by the Secretary.''.

    Sec. 803. (a) Section 508(n) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 
U.S.C. 1508(n)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``If'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph 
                (2), if''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to 
                emergency loans under subtitle C of the Consolidated 
                Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961 et 
                seq.).''.

    (b) Section 196(i)(3) of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7333(i)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``If'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), if''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-39]]

                    ``(B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                to emergency loans under subtitle C of the Consolidated 
                Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961 et 
                seq.).''.

    Sec. 804. Section 302 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1922) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(D) Notice.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000 not later 
        than 12 months before a borrower will become ineligible for 
        direct loans under this subtitle by reason of this paragraph, 
        the Secretary shall notify the borrower of such impending 
        ineligibility.''.

    Sec. 805. The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1921 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 302(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1922(a)(2)), by inserting 
        ``for direct loans only,'' before ``have either'';
            (2) in section 311(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1941(a)(2)), by inserting 
        ``for direct loans only,'' before ``have either''; and
            (3) in section 359 (7 U.S.C. 2006a)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``and 
                guaranteed''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``or guaranteed'' 
                each place it appears.

    Sec. 806. (a) Section 305 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1925) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Sec. 305. The Secretary'' and inserting 
        the following:

``SEC. 305. LIMITATIONS ON AMOUNT OF FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary'';
            (2) by striking ``$300,000'' and inserting ``$700,000 
        (increased, beginning with fiscal year 2000, by the inflation 
        percentage applicable to the fiscal year in which the loan is 
        guaranteed and reduced by the amount of any unpaid indebtedness 
        of the borrower on loans under subtitle B that are guaranteed by 
        the Secretary)'';
            (3) by striking ``In determining'' and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(b) Determination of Value.--In determining''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(c) Inflation Percentage.--For purposes of this section, the 
inflation percentage applicable to a fiscal year is the percentage (if 
any) by which--
            ``(1) the average of the Prices Paid By Farmers Index (as 
        compiled by the National Agricultural Statistics Service of the 
        Department of Agriculture) for the 12-month period ending on 
        August 31 of the immediately preceding fiscal year; exceeds
            ``(2) the average of such index (as so defined) for the 12-
        month period ending on August 31, 1996.''.

    (b) Section 313 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1943) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Sec. 313. The Secretary'' and inserting 
        the following:

``SEC. 313. LIMITATIONS ON AMOUNT OF OPERATING LOANS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary'';
            (2) by striking ``this subtitle (1) that would cause'' and 
        inserting ``this subtitle--
                    ``(1) that would cause'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-40]]

            (3) by striking ``$400,000; or (2) for the purchasing'' and 
        inserting ``$700,000 (increased, beginning with fiscal year 
        2000, by the inflation percentage applicable to the fiscal year 
        in which the loan is guaranteed and reduced by the unpaid 
        indebtedness of the borrower on loans under the sections 
        specified in section 305 that are guaranteed by the Secretary); 
        or
                    ``(2) for the purchasing''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Inflation Percentage.--For purposes of this section, the 
inflation percentage applicable to a fiscal year is the percentage (if 
any) by which--
            ``(1) the average of the Prices Paid By Farmers Index (as 
        compiled by the National Agricultural Statistics Service of the 
        Department of Agriculture) for the 12-month period ending on 
        August 31 of the immediately preceding fiscal year; exceeds
            ``(2) the average of such index (as so defined) for the 12-
        month period ending on August 31, 1996.''.

    Sec. 807. Section 353(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2001(e)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(6) Notice of recapture.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000 
        not later than 12 months before the end of the term of a shared 
        appreciation arrangement, the Secretary shall notify the 
        borrower involved of the provisions of the arrangement.''.

    Sec. 808. Section 353(c)(3)(C) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2001(c)(3)(C)) is amended by striking ``110 
percent'' and inserting ``100 percent''.

<<NOTE: India-Pakistan Relief Act of 1998. 22 USC 2799aa-1 note.>> TITLE 
IX--INDIA-PAKISTAN RELIEF ACT

    Sec. 901. Short Title. This title may be cited as the ``India-
Pakistan Relief Act of 1998''.
     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2799aa-1 note.>> Sec. 902. Waiver Authority. (a) 
Authority.--The President may waive for a period not to exceed one year 
upon enactment of this Act with respect to India or Pakistan the 
application of any sanction or prohibition (or portion thereof) 
contained in section 101 or 102 of the Arms Export Control Act, section 
620E(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or section 2(b)(4) of the 
Export Import Bank Act of 1945.

    (b) Exception.--The authority provided in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to any restriction in section 102(b)(2) (B), (C), or (G) of the 
Arms Export Control Act.
    (c) Availability of Amounts.--Amounts made available by this section 
are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided, That such amounts shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.
     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2799aa-1 note.>> Sec. 903. Consultation. Prior to 
each exercise of the authority provided in section 902, the President 
shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2799aa-1 note.>> Sec. 904. Reporting Requirement. 
Not later than 30 days prior to the expiration of a one-year period 
described in section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-41]]

902, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees on economic and national security developments 
in India and Pakistan.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2799aa-1 note.>> Sec. 905. Appropriate Congressional 
Committees Defined. In this title, the term ``appropriate congressional 
committees'' means the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate.

  TITLE X--UNDER SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR MARKETING AND REGULATORY 
                                PROGRAMS

SEC. 1001. GENERAL.

    Title II of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) is 
amended--
             <<NOTE: 7 USC 6918.>> (1) in section 218(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by adding ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (3);
            (2) by redesignating subtitle I as subtitle J;
            (3) by inserting after subtitle H the following:

             ``Subtitle I--Marketing and Regulatory Programs

<<NOTE: 7 USC 7005.>> ``SEC. 285. UNDER SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR 
            MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary is authorized to establish in 
the Department the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs.

    ``(b) Confirmation Required.--If the Secretary establishes the 
position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory 
Programs authorized under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate.
    ``(c) Functions of Under Secretary.--
            ``(1) Principal functions.--Upon establishment, the 
        Secretary shall delegate to the Under Secretary of Agriculture 
        for Marketing and Regulatory Programs those functions and duties 
        under the jurisdiction of the Department that are related to 
        agricultural marketing, animal and plant health inspection, 
        grain inspection, and packers and stockyards.
            ``(2) Additional functions.--The Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs shall perform 
        such other functions and duties as may be required by law or 
        prescribed by the Secretary.

    ``(d) Succession.--Any official who is serving as Assistant 
Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs on the 
date of the enactment of this section and who was appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall not 
be required to be reappointed under subsection (b) to the successor 
position authorized under subsection (a) if the Secretary establishes 
the position, and the official occupies the new position, within 180 
days after the date of enactment of this section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-42]]

(or such later date set by the Secretary if litigation delays rapid 
succession).
    ``(e) Executive Schedule.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety (as added by section 261(c)) 
the following:
    `Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory 
Programs.'.''; and
             <<NOTE: 7 USC 7014.>> (4) in section 296(b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) the authority of the Secretary to establish in the 
        Department the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
        Marketing and Regulatory Programs under section 285.''.

SEC. 1002. PAY INCREASE PROHIBITED.

    The compensation of any officer or employee of the Department of 
Agriculture on the date of enactment of this Act shall not be increased 
as a result of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1003. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``Assistant Secretaries of Agriculture (3).'' and inserting ``Assistant 
Secretaries of Agriculture (2).''.

             TITLE XI--EMERGENCY AND MARKET LOSS ASSISTANCE

Subtitle A--Emergency Assistance for Crop and Livestock Feed Losses Due 
                              to Disasters

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1101. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Fair and Equitable Distribution.--Assistance made available 
under this subtitle shall be distributed in a fair and equitable manner 
to producers who have incurred crop and livestock feed losses in all 
affected geographic regions of the United States.
    (b) Program Administration.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this title as the 
``Secretary'') may determine--
            (1) 1 or more loss thresholds producers on a farm must incur 
        with respect to a crop to be eligible for assistance;
            (2) the payment rate for crop and livestock feed losses 
        incurred; and
            (3) eligibility and payment limitation criteria (as defined 
        by the Secretary) for persons to receive assistance under this 
        subtitle, which, in the case of assistance received under any 
        section of this subtitle, shall be in addition to--
                    (A) assistance made available under any other 
                section of this subtitle and subtitle B;
                    (B) payments or loans received by a person under the 
                Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et 
                seq.);
                    (C) payments received by a person for the 1998 crop 
                under the noninsured crop assistance program established 
                under section 196 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 7333);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-43]]

                    (D) crop insurance indemnities provided for the 1998 
                crop under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 
                et seq.); and
                    (E) emergency loans made available for the 1998 crop 
                under subtitle C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
                Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.).

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1102. CROP LOSS ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer a program under 
which emergency financial assistance is made available to producers on a 
farm who have incurred losses associated with crops due to disasters (as 
determined by the Secretary).
    (b) Losses Incurred for 1998 Crop.--Subject to section 1132, the 
Secretary shall use not more than $1,500,000,000 to make available 
assistance to producers on a farm who have incurred losses in the 1998 
crop due to disasters.
    (c) Multiyear Losses.--Subject to section 1132, the Secretary shall 
use not more than $875,000,000 to make available assistance to producers 
on a farm who have incurred multiyear losses (as defined by the 
Secretary) in the 1998 and preceding crops of a commodity due to 
disasters (including, but not limited to, diseases such as scab).
    (d) Relationship Between Assistance.--The Secretary shall make 
assistance available to producers on a farm under either subsection (b) 
or (c).
    (e) Qualifying Losses.--Assistance under this section may be made 
for losses associated with crops that are due to, as determined by the 
Secretary--
            (1) quantity losses;
            (2) quality (including, but not limited to, aflatoxin) 
        losses; or
            (3) severe economic losses due to damaging weather or 
        related condition.

    (f) Crops Covered.--Assistance under this section shall be 
applicable to losses for all crops (including losses of trees from which 
a crop is harvested), as determined by the Secretary, due to disasters.

    (g) Crop Insurance.--
            (1) Administration.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall not discriminate against or penalize producers 
        on a farm who have purchased crop insurance under the Federal 
        Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).
            (2) Encouraging future crop insurance participation.--
        Subject to section 1132, the Secretary, acting through the 
        Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, may use the funds made 
        available under subsections (b) and (c), and only those funds, 
        to provide premium refunds or other assistance to purchasers of 
        crop insurance for their 1998 insured crops, or their preceding 
        (including 1998) insured crops.
            (3) Producers who have not purchased crop insurance for 1998 
        crop.--As a condition of receiving assistance under this 
        section, producers on a farm who have not purchased crop 
        insurance for the 1998 crop under that Act shall agree by 
        contract to purchase crop insurance for the 1999 and 2000 crops 
        produced by the producers.
            (4) Liquidated damages.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-44]]

                    (A) In general.--The contract under paragraph (3) 
                shall provide for liquidated damages to be paid by the 
                producers due to the failure of the producers to 
                purchase crop insurance as provided in paragraph (3).
                    (B) Notice of damages.--The amount of the liquidated 
                damages shall be established by the Secretary and 
                specified in the contract agreed to by the producers.
            (5) Funding for crop insurance purchase requirement.--
        Subject to section 1132, such sums as may be necessary, to 
        remain available until expended, shall be available to the 
        Federal Crop Insurance Corporation to cover costs incurred by 
        the Corporation as a result of the crop insurance purchase 
        requirement of paragraph (3). Funds made available under 
        subsections (b) and (c) may not be used to cover such costs.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1103. EMERGENCY LIVESTOCK FEED 
            ASSISTANCE.

    Subject to section 1132, the Secretary shall use not more than 
$200,000,000 to make available livestock feed assistance to livestock 
producers affected by disasters during calendar year 1998.

                   Subtitle B--Market Loss Assistance

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1111. MARKET LOSS ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to section 1132 and except as provided in 
subsection (d), the Secretary shall use not more than $3,057,000,000 for 
assistance to owners
and producers on a farm who are eligible for final payments for fiscal 
year 1998 under a production flexibility contract for the farm under the 
Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) to partially 
compensate the owners and producers for the loss of markets for the 1998 
crop of a commodity.

    (b) Amount.--Except as provided in subsection (d), the amount of 
assistance made available to owners and producers on a farm under this 
section shall be proportional to the amount of the contract payment 
received by the owners and producers for fiscal year 1998 under a 
production flexibility contract for the farm under the Agricultural 
Market Transition Act.
    (c) Time for Payment.--The assistance made available under this 
section for an eligible owner or producer shall be made as soon as 
practicable after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Of the total amount provided under subsection (a), $200,000,000 
shall be available to provide assistance to dairy producers in a manner 
determined by the Secretary: Provided, That no payments made under this 
section shall affect any decision with respect to rulemaking activities 
described under section 143 of Public Law 104-127.

                      Subtitle C--Other Assistance

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1121. INDEMNITY PAYMENTS FOR COTTON 
            PRODUCERS.

    (a) Federal Contribution.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall pay $5,000,000 to the State of Georgia to help fund 
an indemnity fund, to be established and managed by that State, to 
compensate cotton producers in that State for losses incurred in 1998 or 
1999 from the loss of properly stored, harvested cotton as the result of 
the bankruptcy of a warehouseman or other party in possession of 
warehouse receipts evidencing title

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-45]]

to the commodity, an improper conversion or transfer of the cotton, or 
such other potential hazards as determined appropriate by the State.
    (b) Conditions on Payment to State.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall make the payment to the State of Georgia under subsection (a) only 
if the State also contributes $5,000,000 to the indemnity fund and 
agrees to expend all amounts in the indemnity fund by not later than 
January 1, 2000, to provide compensation to cotton producers as provided 
in such subsection. If the State of Georgia fails to make its 
contribution of $5,000,000 to the indemnity fund by July 1, 1999, the 
funds that would otherwise be paid to the State shall be available to 
the Secretary for the purpose of providing partial compensation to 
cotton producers as provided in such subsection.
    (c) Reporting Requirements.--Upon the establishment of the indemnity 
fund, and not later than October 1, 1999, the State of Georgia shall 
submit a report to the Secretary of Agriculture and the Congress 
describing the State's efforts to use the indemnity fund to provide 
compensation to injured cotton producers.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1122. HONEY RECOURSE LOANS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
order to assist producers of honey to market their honey in an orderly 
manner during a period of disastrously low prices, the Secretary shall 
make available recourse loans to producers of the 1998 crop of honey on 
fair and reasonable terms and conditions, as determined by the 
Secretary.
    (b) Loan Rate.--The loan rate of the loans shall be 85 percent of 
the average price of honey during the 5-crop year period preceding the 
1998 crop year, excluding the crop year in which the average price of 
honey was the highest and the crop year in which the average price of 
honey was the lowest in the period.
    (c) No Net Cost Basis.--Repayment of a loan under this section shall 
include repayment for interest and administrative costs as necessary to 
operate the program established under this section on a no net cost 
basis.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1123. NONINSURED CROP ASSISTANCE TO 
            RAISIN PRODUCERS.

    Notwithstanding any of the provisions of section 196 of the Federal 
Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) that 
would exclude the following producers from benefits thereunder, the 
Secretary shall make Noninsured Crop Assistance Program payments in 
fiscal year 1999 to raisin producers who obtained catastrophic risk 
protection but because of adverse weather conditions were not able to 
comply with the policy deadlines for laying the raisins in trays.

SEC. 1124. EMERGENCY <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>>  ASSISTANCE.

    In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act, $50,000,000 is appropriated to the Department of Agriculture, 
to remain available until expended, to provide emergency disaster 
assistance to persons or entities who have incurred losses from a 
failure under section 312(a) of Public Law 94-265.

SEC. 1125. FOOD FOR PROGRESS.

    The Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o) is
amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-46]]

            (1) in subsection (f)(3), by inserting after ``$30,000,000'' 
        the following: ``(or, in the case of fiscal year 1999, 
        $35,000,000)'';
            (2) in subsection (l)(1), by inserting after ``$10,000,000'' 
        the following: ``(or, in the case of fiscal year 1999, 
        $12,000,000)'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o); and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (m) the following:

    ``(n) During fiscal year 1999, to the maximum extent practicable, 
the Secretary shall utilize Private Voluntary Organizations to carry out 
this section.''.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1126. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF RECOURSE 
            LOAN AUTHORITY.

    Section 137 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 
7237) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``AND OTHER 
        FIBERS'' before the period at the end;
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

    ``(c) Recourse Loans Available for Mohair.--
            ``(1) Recourse loans available.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, during fiscal year 1999, the Secretary shall 
        make available recourse loans, as determined by the Secretary, 
        to producers of mohair produced during or before that fiscal 
        year.
            ``(2) Loan rate.--The loan rate for a loan under paragraph 
        (1) shall be equal to $2.00 per pound.
            ``(3) Term of loan.--A loan under paragraph (1) shall have a 
        term of 1 year beginning on the first day of the first month 
        after the month in which the loan is made.
            ``(4) Waiver of interest.--Notwithstanding subsection (d), 
        the Secretary shall not charge interest on a loan made under 
        paragraph (1).''.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1127. PILOT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Domestic Market Reporting Pilot Program.--Title IV of the 
Packers and Stockyards Act is amended to include the following new 
section:

<<NOTE: 7 USC 229a.>> ``SEC. 416. MANDATORY DOMESTIC REPORTING PILOT 
            INVESTIGATION.

    ``(1) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a 
twelve month pilot investigation, beginning upon the date of 
implementation of such pilot, under which the Secretary shall require 
any person or class of persons engaged in the business of buying, 
selling, or marketing domestic or imported cattle for immediate 
slaughter and fresh muscle cuts of beef, or domestic or imported sheep 
and fresh or frozen muscle cuts of lamb, to report to the Secretary, in 
the least intrusive manner possible, information relating to prices for 
the procurement of these items.
    ``(2) Application.--This section shall only apply to a person that 
is engaged in the business of buying, selling, or marketing a 
significant share of the national market, as determined by the 
Secretary, of the total volume of domestic or imported cattle for 
immediate slaughter and fresh muscle cuts of beef, or domestic or 
imported sheep and fresh or frozen muscle cuts of lamb, bought, sold, or 
marketed in the United States.
    ``(3) Report.--Not later than six months after the conclusion of the 
mandatory domestic reporting pilot investigation, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall submit a report to the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-47]]

on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on the 
effectiveness of the pilot investigation. No information collected under 
the pilot investigation may be disclosed until the report is 
submitted.''.
    (b) Export Market Reporting Pilot Investigation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall implement a twelve 
        month pilot investigation, beginning on the date of 
        implementation, of a streamlined electronic system for 
        collecting export data, in the least intrusive manner possible, 
        for fresh or frozen muscle cuts of meat food products, and 
        develop a data-reporting program to disseminate summary 
        information in a timely manner, not to exceed two weeks after 
        issuance.
            (2) Report.--Not later than six months after the conclusion 
        of the mandatory export reporting pilot investigation, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a report to the Committee 
        on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
        on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on the 
        effectiveness of the pilot investigation.

    (c) Funding.--An amount of $250,000 is hereby appropriated to carry 
out this section of the Act.

                       Subtitle D--Administration

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1131. COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.

    Subject to section 1132, the Secretary shall use the funds, 
facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry 
out subtitles A, B, and C of this title.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1132. EMERGENCY REQUIREMENT.

    Notwithstanding the last sentence of section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
amounts made available by subtitles A, B, and C of this title are 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided, That such amounts shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress.

<<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SEC. 1133. REGULATIONS.

    (a) Issuance of Regulations.--As soon as practicable after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, as appropriate, shall issue such regulations as are 
necessary to implement subtitles A, B, and C of this title. The issuance 
of the regulations shall be made without regard to--
            (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to 
        notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
        rulemaking; and
            (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').

    (b) Congressional Review of Agency Rulemaking.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary shall use the authority provided under section 
808 of title 5, United States Code.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-48]]

                          TITLE XII--BIODIESEL

SEC. 1201. BIODIESEL FUEL USE CREDITS.

    (a) Amendment.--Title III of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 
U.S.C. 13211-13219) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

<<NOTE: 42 USC 13220.>> ``SEC. 312. BIODIESEL FUEL USE CREDITS.

    ``(a) Allocation of Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall allocate one credit 
        under this section to a fleet or covered person for each 
        qualifying volume of the biodiesel component of fuel containing 
        at least 20 percent biodiesel by volume purchased after the date 
        of the enactment of this section for use by the fleet or covered 
        person in vehicles owned or operated by the fleet or covered 
        person that weigh more than 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight 
        rating.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--No credits shall be allocated under 
        paragraph (1) for a purchase of biodiesel--
                    ``(A) for use in alternative fueled vehicles; or
                    ``(B) that is required by Federal or State law.
            ``(3) Authority to modify percentage.--The Secretary may, by 
        rule, lower the 20 percent biodiesel volume requirement in 
        paragraph (1) for reasons related to cold start, safety, or 
        vehicle function considerations.
            ``(4) Documentation.--A fleet or covered person seeking a 
        credit under this section shall provide written documentation to 
        the Secretary supporting the allocation of a credit to such 
        fleet or covered person under paragraph (1).

    ``(b) Use of Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--At the request of a fleet or covered 
        person allocated a credit under subsection (a), the Secretary 
        shall, for the year in which the purchase of a qualifying volume 
        is made, treat that purchase as the acquisition of one 
        alternative fueled vehicle the fleet or covered person is 
        required to acquire under this title, title IV, or title V.
            ``(2) Limitation.--Credits allocated under subsection (a) 
        may not be used to satisfy more than 50 percent of the 
        alternative fueled vehicle requirements of a fleet or covered 
        person under this title, title IV, and title V. This paragraph 
        shall not apply to a fleet or covered person that is a biodiesel 
        alternative fuel provider described in section 501(a)(2)(A).

    ``(c) Credit Not a Section 508 Credit.--A credit under this section 
shall not be considered a credit under section 508.
    ``(d) Issuance of Rule.--The Secretary shall, before January 1, 
1999, issue a rule establishing procedures for the implementation of 
this section.
    ``(e) Collection of Data.--The Secretary shall collect such data as 
are required to make a determination described in subsection (f)(2)(B).
    ``(f) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) the term `biodiesel' means a diesel fuel substitute 
        produced from nonpetroleum renewable resources that meets the 
        registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives 
        established by the Environmental Protection Agency under section 
        211 of the Clean Air Act; and
            ``(2) the term `qualifying volume' means--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-49]]

                    ``(A) 450 gallons; or
                    ``(B) if the Secretary determines by rule that the 
                average annual alternative fuel use in light duty 
                vehicles by fleets and covered persons exceeds 450 
                gallons or gallon equivalents, the amount of such 
                average annual alternative fuel use.''.

    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
Energy Policy Act of 1992 is amended by adding at the end of the items 
relating to title III the following new item:

``Sec. 312. Biodiesel fuel use credits.''.

                  TITLE XIII--EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $40,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
                    Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    For an additional gross obligation for the principal amount of 
direct and guaranteed farm operating loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1928-1929, to be available from funds in the Agricultural Credit 
Insurance Fund, $540,510,000, of which $150,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $156,704,000 shall be for subsidized 
guaranteed loans.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed farm operating 
loans, including the cost of modifying such loans as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, farm operating loans, 
$31,405,000, of which $15,969,000 shall be for direct loans, $13,696,000 
for guaranteed subsidized loans, and $1,740,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed loans: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

      An additional $3,000,000 is provided for the dairy production 
indemnity program as established by Public Law 105-174: Provided, That 
the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $3,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-50]]

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

    For an additional amount to carry out the program of forestry 
incentives, as authorized by the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 
1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical assistance and related 
expenses, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by that Act: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to 
the extent that an official budget request for $10,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999''.
      (b) For programs, projects or activities in the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as follows, to be effective as if it 
had been enacted into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $79,448,000, of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed 43 permanent positions and 44 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $8,136,000 shall be expended for the Department Leadership 
Program exclusive of augmentation that occurred in these offices in 
fiscal year 1998: Provided further, That not to exceed 41 permanent 
positions and 48 full-time equivalent workyears and $4,811,000 shall be 
expended for the Offices of Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: 
Provided further, That the latter two aforementioned offices shall not 
be augmented by personnel details, temporary transfers of personnel on 
either a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis or any other type of 
formal or informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or funds on 
either a temporary or long-term basis: Provided further, That the 
Attorney General is authorized to transfer, under such terms and 
conditions as the Attorney General shall specify, forfeited real or 
personal property of limited or marginal value, as such value is 
determined by guidelines established by the Attorney General, to a State 
or local government agency, or its designated contractor or transferee, 
for use to support drug abuse treatment, drug and crime prevention and 
education, housing, job skills, and other community-based public health 
and safety programs: Provided

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-51]]

further, That any transfer under the preceding proviso shall not create 
or confer any private right of action in any person against the United 
States, and shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 of 
                                this Act.

    For necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney General, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse any 
Department of Justice organization for (1) the costs incurred in 
reestablishing the operational capability of an office or facility which 
has been damaged or destroyed as a result of any domestic or 
international terrorist incident; (2) the costs of providing support to 
counter, investigate or prosecute domestic or international terrorism, 
including payment of rewards in connection with these activities; (3) 
the costs of conducting a terrorism threat assessment of Federal 
agencies and their facilities; (4) the costs associated with ensuring 
the continuance of essential Government functions during a time of 
emergency; and (5) the costs of activities related to the protection of 
the Nation's critical infrastructure: Provided, That any Federal agency 
may be reimbursed for the costs of detaining in foreign countries 
individuals accused of acts of terrorism that violate the laws of the 
United States: Provided further, That funds provided under this 
paragraph shall be available only after the Attorney General notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
    In addition, for necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney 
General, $135,000,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse 
or transfer to agencies of the Department of Justice for any costs 
incurred in connection with: (1) providing bomb training and response 
capabilities to State and local law enforcement agencies; (2) providing 
training and related equipment for chemical, biological, nuclear, and 
cyber attack prevention and response capabilities for States, cities, 
territories, and local jurisdictions; and (3) providing grants, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance authorized by 
sections 819, 821, and 822 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death 
Penalty Act of 1996: Provided, That such funds transferred to the Office 
of Justice Programs may include amounts for management and 
administration, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
``Justice Assistance'' account.

                    administrative review and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and clemency 
petitions and immigration related activities, $75,312,000.
    In addition, $59,251,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
                                  Fund.

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $35,610,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended under the 
direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-52]]

certificate of, the Attorney General; and for the acquisition, lease, 
maintenance, and operation of motor vehicles, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided, 
That up to one-tenth of one percent of the Department of Justice's 
allocation from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund grant programs 
may be transferred at the discretion of the Attorney General to this 
account for the audit or other review of such grant programs, as 
authorized by section 130005 of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322).

                     United States Parole Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $7,400,000.

                            Legal Activities

             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the District 
of Columbia, $466,840,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the funds available in this appropriation, not to 
exceed $17,834,000 shall remain available until expended for office 
automation systems for the legal divisions covered by this 
appropriation, and for the United States Attorneys, the Antitrust 
Division, and offices funded through ``Salaries and Expenses'', General 
Administration: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available to the United States National 
Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided further, That $813,333 of funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act shall be transferred by the Attorney 
General to the Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in 
the United States: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    In addition, $8,160,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, to remain available until expended for such 
purposes.
     In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, as amended, not to exceed $4,028,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-53]]

                salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $68,275,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $68,275,000 of offsetting collections derived from 
fees collected in fiscal year 1999 for premerger notification filings 
under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 
U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, and shall remain
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 1999, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 1999 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
                            not more than $0.

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including intergovernmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,009,680,000; of which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2000, for (1) training personnel in debt collection, 
(2) locating debtors and their property, (3) paying the net costs of 
selling property, and (4) tracking debts owed to the United States 
Government: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to 
exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of those funds available for automated litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $2,500,000 for the operation of the National Advocacy 
Center shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
expansion of existing Violent Crime Task Forces in United States 
Attorneys Offices into demonstration projects, including inter-
governmental, inter-local, cooperative, and task-force agreements, 
however denominated, and contracts with State and local prosecutorial 
and law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of violent crimes: Provided further, That, in addition to 
reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the Offices of 
the United States Attorneys, not to exceed 9,044 positions and 9,312 
full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the United States Attorneys: Provided 
further, That $2,300,000 shall be used to provide for additional 
assistant United States attorneys and investigators to serve in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Camden County, New Jersey, to enforce 
Federal laws designed to prevent the possession by criminals of firearms 
(as that term is defined in section 921(a) of title 18, United States 
Code), of which $1,500,000 shall be used to provide for those attorneys 
and investigators in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and $800,000 shall be 
used to provide for those attorneys and investigators in Camden County, 
New Jersey.
    In addition, $80,698,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, to remain available until expended for such 
purposes.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-54]]

                    united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), $114,248,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System Fund: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to 
the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $114,248,000 of offsetting collections derived 
from fees collected pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 589a(b) shall be retained and 
used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are received 
during fiscal year 1999, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 
appropriation from the Fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That any 
funds collected in fiscal year 1998 in excess of $114,248,000 are not 
                        available for obligation.

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $1,227,000.

          salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service; 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of 
vehicles, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for police-type 
use, without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year, $477,056,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 561(i); of 
which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses; and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for 
development, implementation, maintenance and support, and training for 
an automated prisoner information system shall remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, $25,553,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
                                  Fund.

    For planning, constructing, renovating, equipping, and maintaining 
United States Marshals Service prisoner-holding space in United States 
courthouses and federal buildings, including the renovation and 
expansion of prisoner movement areas, elevators, and sallyports, 
             $4,600,000, to remain available until expended.

    There is hereby established <<NOTE: 18 USC 4013 note.>>  a Justice 
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System Fund for the payment of 
necessary expenses related to the scheduling and transportation of 
United States prisoners and illegal and criminal aliens in the custody 
of the United States Marshals Service, as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, 
including, without limitation, salaries and expenses, operations, and 
the acquisition, lease, and maintenance of aircraft and support 
facilities:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-55]]

Provided, That the Fund shall be reimbursed or credited with advance 
payments from amounts available to the Department of Justice, other 
Federal agencies, and other sources at rates that will recover the 
expenses of Fund operations, including, without limitation, accrual of 
annual leave and depreciation of plant and equipment of the Fund: 
Provided further, That proceeds from the disposal of Fund aircraft shall 
be credited to the Fund: Provided further, That amounts in the Fund 
shall be available without fiscal year limitation, and may be used for 
operating equipment lease agreements that do not exceed 5 years.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For expenses, related to United States prisoners in the custody of 
the United States Marshals Service as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, but 
not including expenses otherwise provided for in appropriations 
available to the Attorney General, $425,000,000, as authorized by 28 
U.S.C. 561(i), to remain available until expended.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, for 
expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $95,000,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovations, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto, for protected witness safesites; and of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and maintenance 
of armored vehicles for transportation of protected witnesses.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
established by title X of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $7,199,000 and, 
in addition, up to $500,000 of funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be transferred by the Attorney General to this 
account: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon 
a determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for conflict prevention and resolution 
activities of the Community Relations Service, the Attorney General may 
transfer such amounts to the Community Relations Service, from available 
appropriations for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
treated as a reprogramming under section 605 of this Act and shall not 
be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(A)(ii), (B), (F), and 
(G), as amended, $23,000,000, to be derived from the Department of 
Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-56]]

                     Radiation Exposure Compensation

                         administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $2,000,000.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include intergovernmental agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation 
and prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $304,014,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from appropriations 
under this heading may be used under authorities available to the 
organizations reimbursed from this appropriation: Provided further, That 
any unobligated balances remaining available at the end of the fiscal 
year shall revert to the Attorney General for reallocation among 
participating organizations in succeeding fiscal years, subject to the 
reprogramming procedures described in section 605 of this Act.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States; including purchase for police-type use of not to exceed 2,668 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 2,000 will be for replacement only, 
without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current 
fiscal year, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; and not to exceed $70,000 to 
meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General, $2,746,805,000; of which not to 
exceed $50,000,000 for automated data processing and telecommunications 
and technical investigative equipment and not to exceed $1,000,000 for 
undercover operations shall remain available until September 30, 2000; 
of which not less than $292,473,000 shall be for counterterrorism 
investigations, foreign counterintelligence, and other activities 
related to our national security; of which not to exceed $61,800,000 
shall remain available until expended; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 is authorized to be made available for making advances for 
expenses arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative 
activities related to violent crime, terrorism, organized crime, and 
drug investigations; and of which $1,500,000 shall be available to 
maintain an independent program office dedicated solely to the 
automation of fingerprint identification services: Provided, That not to 
exceed $45,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That no funds in this Act may 
be used to provide ballistics imaging

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-57]]

equipment to any State or local authority which has obtained similar 
equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy unless the State or local 
authority agrees to return that equipment or to repay that grant or 
subsidy to the Federal Government.
    In addition, $223,356,000 for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund, as authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act 
of 1994, as amended, and the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty 
                              Act of 1996.

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $1,287,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be 
accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; purchase of not to exceed 1,428 passenger motor vehicles, of 
which 1,080 will be for replacement only, for police-type use without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year; and acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
$800,780,000, of which not to exceed $1,800,000 for research and 
$15,000,000 for transfer to the Drug Diversion Control Fee Account for 
operating expenses shall remain available until expended, and of which 
not to exceed $4,000,000 for purchase of evidence and payments for 
information, not to exceed $10,000,000 for contracting for automated 
data processing and telecommunications equipment, and not to exceed 
$2,000,000 for laboratory equipment, $4,000,000 for technical equipment, 
and $2,000,000 for aircraft replacement retrofit and parts, shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000; and of which not to exceed $50,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

    In addition, $405,000,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
                                  Fund.

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $8,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-58]]

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration and enforcement of the 
laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and alien registration, as 
follows:

                     enforcement and border affairs

    For salaries and expenses for the Border Patrol program, the 
detention and deportation program, the intelligence program, the 
investigations program, and the inspections program, including not to 
exceed $50,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential 
character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted 
for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; purchase for 
police-type use (not to exceed 3,855 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
2,535 are for replacement only), without regard to the general purchase 
price limitation for the current fiscal year, and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance and operation of 
aircraft; research related to immigration enforcement; for protecting 
and maintaining the integrity of the borders of the United States 
including, without limitation, equipping, maintaining, and making 
improvements to the infrastructure; and for the care and housing of 
Federal detainees held in the joint Immigration and Naturalization 
Service and United States Marshals Service's Buffalo Detention Facility, 
$1,069,754,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 for research shall 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 
shall be available for costs associated with the training program for 
basic officer training, and $5,000,000 is for payments or advances 
arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements with State and 
local law enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative activities 
related to immigration; and of which not to exceed $5,000,000 is to fund 
or reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs associated with the 
care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled illegal aliens: 
Provided, That none of the funds available to the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service shall be available to pay any employee overtime 
pay in an amount in excess of $30,000 during the calendar year beginning 
January 1, 1999: Provided further, That uniforms may be purchased 
without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current 
fiscal year: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this 
or any other Act shall be used for the continued operation of the San 
Clemente and Temecula checkpoints unless the checkpoints are open and 
traffic is being checked on a continuous 24-hour basis.

   citizenship and benefits, immigration support and program direction

    For all programs of the Immigration and Naturalization Service not 
included under the heading ``Enforcement and Border Affairs'', 
$552,083,000: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
the Attorney General may transfer any funds appropriated under this 
heading and the heading ``Enforcement and Border Affairs'' between said 
appropriations notwithstanding any percentage transfer limitations 
imposed under this appropriation Act and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-59]]

may direct such fees as are collected by the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service to the activities funded under this heading and 
the heading ``Enforcement and Border Affairs'' for performance of the 
functions for which the fees legally may be expended: Provided further, 
That not to exceed 43 permanent positions and 43 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $4,284,000 shall be expended for the Offices of 
Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: Provided further, That the 
latter two aforementioned offices shall not be augmented by personnel 
details, temporary transfers of personnel on either a reimbursable or 
non-reimbursable basis, or any other type of formal or informal transfer 
or reimbursement of personnel or funds on either a temporary or long-
term basis: Provided further, That the number of positions filled 
through non-career appointment at the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, for which funding is provided in this Act or is otherwise made 
available to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, shall not 
exceed 4 permanent positions and 4 full-time equivalent workyears: 
Provided further, That funds may be used, without limitation, for 
equipping, maintaining, and making improvements to the infrastructure 
and the purchase of vehicles for police type use within the limits of 
the Enforcement and Border Affairs appropriation: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal year 
1999, the Attorney General is authorized and directed to impose 
disciplinary action, including termination of employment, pursuant to 
policies and procedures applicable to employees of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, for any employee of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service who violates policies and procedures set forth by the Department 
of Justice relative to the granting of citizenship or who willfully 
deceives the Congress or department leadership on any matter.

                    violent crime reduction programs

    In addition, $842,490,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund: Provided, That the Attorney General may use the transfer authority 
provided under the heading ``Citizenship and Benefits, Immigration 
Support and Program Direction'' to provide funds to any program of the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service that heretofore has been funded 
by the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.

                              construction

    For planning, construction, renovation, equipping, and maintenance 
of buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and 
alien registration, not otherwise provided for, $90,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no funds shall be available for 
the site acquisition, design, or construction of any Border Patrol 
checkpoint in the Tucson sector.

                          Federal Prison System

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-60]]

including purchase (not to exceed 763, of which 599 are for replacement 
only) and hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for 
the provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments, $2,862,354,000: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 
250a.>> That the Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources 
and Services Administration such amounts as may be necessary for direct 
expenditures by that Administration for medical relief for inmates of 
Federal penal and correctional institutions: Provided further, That the 
Director of the Federal Prison System (FPS), where necessary, may enter 
into contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor 
to determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the FPS, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
FPS: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $90,000,000 for the activation of new facilities shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That, of 
the amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall remain available until expended to make payments in advance for 
grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses 
authorized by section 501(c) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 
1980, as amended, for the care and security in the United States of 
Cuban and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
section 4(d) of the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 353(d)), FPS 
may enter into contracts and other agreements with private entities for 
periods of not to exceed 3 years and 7 additional option years for the 
confinement of Federal prisoners.

    In addition, $26,499,000, for such purposes, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
                                  Fund.

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; leasing the Oklahoma City Airport Trust Facility; purchase 
and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and equipping of such 
facilities for penal and correctional use, including all necessary 
expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; and 
constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$410,997,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$14,074,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate work 
programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
for work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, That not 
to exceed 10 percent of the funds appropriated to ``Buildings and 
Facilities'' in this Act or any other Act may be transferred to 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Federal Prison System, upon notification by 
the Attorney General to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in compliance with provisions set forth 
                       in section 605 of this Act.

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-61]]

borrowing authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, 
as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget 
for the current fiscal year for such corporation, including purchase of 
(not to exceed five for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
                                vehicles.

    Not to exceed $3,266,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which the said accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or 
produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other property 
belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, and the Missing Children's Assistance Act, as 
amended, including salaries and expenses in connection therewith, and 
with the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, $147,151,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title 
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended 
by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524).

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended, for State and Local Narcotics Control 
and Justice Assistance Improvements, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 511 of said Act, $552,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title I of said Act, as 
amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which $47,000,000 
shall be available to carry out the provisions of chapter A of subpart 2 
of part E of title I of said Act, for discretionary grants under the 
Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance 
Programs.

   violent crime reduction programs, state and local law enforcement 
                               assistance

    For assistance (including amounts for administrative costs for 
management and administration, which amounts shall be transferred to and 
merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account)

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-62]]

authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322), as amended (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended (``the 1968 Act''); and 
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, as amended (``the 1990 Act''), 
$2,369,950,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be 
derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund; of which 
$523,000,000 shall be for Local Law Enforcement Block Grants, pursuant 
to H.R. 728 as passed by the House of Representatives on February 14, 
1995, except that for purposes of this Act, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico shall be considered a ``unit of local government'' as well as a 
``State'', for the purposes set forth in paragraphs (A), (B), (D), (F), 
and (I) of section 101(a)(2) of H.R. 728 and for establishing crime 
prevention programs involving cooperation between community residents 
and law enforcement personnel in order to control, detect, or 
investigate crime or the prosecution of criminals: Provided, That no 
funds provided under this heading may be used as matching funds for any 
other Federal grant program: Provided further, That $40,000,000 of this 
amount shall be for Boys and Girls Clubs in public housing facilities 
and other areas in cooperation with State and local law enforcement: 
Provided further, That funds may also be used to defray the costs of 
indemnification insurance for law enforcement officers: Provided 
further, That, hereafter, for the purpose of eligibility for the Local 
Law Enforcement Block Grant Program in the State of Louisiana, parish 
sheriffs are to be considered the unit of local government at the parish 
level under section 108 of H.R. 728: Provided further, That $20,000,000 
shall be available to carry out section 102(2) of H.R. 728; of which 
$45,000,000 shall be for grants to upgrade criminal records, as 
authorized by section 106(b) of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act of 1993, as amended, and section 4(b) of the National Child 
Protection Act of 1993; of which $420,000,000 shall be for the State 
Criminal Alien Assistance Program, as authorized by section 242(j) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; of which $720,500,000 
shall be for Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth in Sentencing 
Incentive Grants pursuant to subtitle A of title II of the 1994 Act, of 
which $165,000,000 shall be available for payments to States for 
incarceration of criminal aliens, of which $25,000,000 shall be 
available for the Cooperative Agreement Program, and of which 
$34,000,000 shall be reserved by the Attorney General for fiscal year 
1999 under section 20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the 1994 Act; 
of which $9,000,000 shall be for the Court Appointed Special Advocate 
Program, as authorized by section 218 of the 1990 Act; of which 
$2,000,000 shall be for Child Abuse Training Programs for Judicial 
Personnel and Practitioners, as authorized by section 224 of the 1990 
Act; of which $206,750,000 shall be for Grants to Combat Violence 
Against Women, to States, units of local government, and Indian tribal 
governments, as authorized by section 1001(a)(18) of the 1968 Act, 
including $23,000,000 which shall be used exclusively for the purpose of 
strengthening civil legal assistance programs for victims of domestic 
violence, and $10,000,000 which shall be used exclusively for violence 
on college campuses: Provided further, That, of these funds, $5,200,000 
shall be provided to the National Institute of Justice for research and 
evaluation of violence against women, $1,196,000 shall be provided to 
the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia 
for domestic violence programs in D.C. Superior Court,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-63]]

and $10,000,000 shall be available to the Office of Juvenile Justice and 
Delinquency Prevention for the Safe Start Program, to be administered as 
authorized by part C of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Act of 
1974, as amended; of which $34,000,000 shall be for Grants to Encourage 
Arrest Policies to States, units of local government, and Indian tribal 
governments, as authorized by section 1001(a)(19) of the 1968 Act; of 
which $25,000,000 shall be for Rural Domestic Violence and Child Abuse 
Enforcement Assistance Grants, as authorized by section 40295 of the 
1994 Act; of which $5,000,000 shall be for training programs to assist 
probation and parole officers who work with released sex offenders, as 
authorized by section 40152(c) of the 1994 Act, and for local 
demonstration projects; of which $1,000,000
shall be for grants for televised testimony, as authorized by section 
1001(a)(7) of the 1968 Act; of which $5,000,000 shall be for the Tribal 
Courts Initiative; of which $63,000,000 shall be for grants for 
residential substance abuse treatment for State prisoners, as authorized 
by section 1001(a)(17) of the 1968 Act; of which $15,000,000 shall be 
for grants to States and units of local government for projects to 
improve DNA analysis, as authorized by section 1001(a)(22) of the 1968 
Act; of which $900,000 shall be for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease 
Patient Alert Program, as authorized by section 240001(c) of the 1994 
Act; of which $1,300,000 shall be for Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention 
Programs, as authorized by section 220002(h) of the 1994 Act; of which 
$40,000,000 shall be for Drug Courts, as authorized by title V of the 
1994 Act; of which $1,500,000 shall be for Law Enforcement Family 
Support Programs, as authorized by section 1001(a)(21) of the 1968 Act; 
of which $2,000,000 shall be for public awareness programs addressing 
marketing scams aimed at senior citizens, as authorized by section 
250005(3) of the 1994 Act; and of which $250,000,000 shall be for 
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants, except that such funds 
shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the 
provisions under this heading for this program in Public Law 105-119, 
but all references in such provisions to 1998 shall be deemed to refer 
instead to 1999: Provided further, That funds made available in fiscal 
year 1999 under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 1968 Act may be 
obligated for programs to assist States in the litigation processing of 
death penalty Federal habeas corpus petitions and for drug testing 
initiatives: Provided further, That, if a unit of local government uses 
any of the funds made available under this title to increase the number 
of law enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a 
net gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform 
                nonadministrative public safety service.

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $33,500,000 to remain available until expended, for 
intergovernmental agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, 
and contracts, with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in 
the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes and drug offenses in 
``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for either reimbursements 
or transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department of Justice and 
other Federal agencies which shall be specified by the Attorney General 
to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program strategy: Provided, That funds 
des-

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-64]]

ignated by Congress through language for other Department of Justice 
appropriation accounts for ``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be 
managed and executed by the Attorney General through the Executive 
Office for Weed and Seed: Provided further, That the Attorney General 
may direct the use of other Department of Justice funds and personnel in 
support of ``Weed and Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney 
General notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 605 of this 
Act.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994, Public Law 103-322 (``the 1994 Act'') 
(including administrative costs), $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, for Public Safety and Community Policing Grants pursuant to 
title I of the 1994 Act: Provided, That not to exceed 266 permanent 
positions and 266 full-time equivalent workyears and $32,023,000 shall 
be expended for program management and administration: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading and the unobligated 
balances available in this program, $180,000,000 shall be used for 
innovative community policing programs, of which $80,000,000 shall be 
used for a law enforcement technology program, $35,000,000 shall be used 
for policing initiatives to combat methamphetamine production and 
trafficking and to enhance policing initiatives in drug ``hot spots'', 
$17,500,000 shall be used for programs to combat violence in schools, 
$25,000,000 shall be used for the Matching Grant Program for Law 
Enforcement Armor Vests pursuant to section 2501 of part Y of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, 
$5,000,000 shall be used for additional community law enforcement 
officers and related program support for the District of Columbia 
Offender Supervision, Defender, and Court Services Agency, $12,500,000 
shall be used for the Community Policing to Combat Domestic Violence 
Program pursuant to section 1701(d) of part Q of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, and $5,000,000 shall 
be used for Community Prosecutors programs: Provided further, That up to 
$35,000,000 shall be available to improve tribal law enforcement 
including equipment and training.
     In addition, for programs of Police Corps education, training, and 
service as set forth in sections 200101-200113 of the 1994 Act, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be derived 
              from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974, as amended, (``the Act''), including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance, $267,597,000, to remain available 
until expended, as authorized by section 299 of part I of title II and 
section 506 of title V of the Act, as amended by Public Law 102-586, of 
which (1) notwithstanding any other

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-65]]

provision of law, $6,847,000 shall be available for expenses authorized 
by part A of title II of the Act, $89,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by part B of title II of the Act, and $42,750,000 
shall be available for expenses authorized by part C of title II of the 
Act: Provided, That $26,500,000 of the amounts provided for part B of 
title II of the Act, as amended, is for the purpose of providing 
additional formula grants under part B to States that provide assurances 
to the Administrator that the State has in effect (or will have in 
effect no later than one year after date of application) policies and 
programs, that ensure that juveniles are subject to accountability-based 
sanctions for every act for which they are adjudicated delinquent; (2) 
$12,000,000 shall be
available for expenses authorized by sections 281 and 282 of part D of 
title II of the Act for prevention and treatment programs relating to 
juvenile gangs; (3) $10,000,000 shall be available for expenses 
authorized by section 285 of part E of title II of the Act; (4) 
$12,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part G of 
title II of the Act for juvenile mentoring programs; and (5) $95,000,000 
shall be available for expenses authorized by title V of the Act for 
incentive grants for local delinquency prevention programs; of which 
$10,000,000 shall be for delinquency prevention, control, and system 
improvement programs for tribal youth; of which $25,000,000 shall be 
available for grants of $360,000 to each state and $6,640,000 shall be 
available for discretionary grants to states, for programs and 
activities to enforce state laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic 
beverages to minors or the purchase or consumption of alcoholic 
beverages by minors, prevention and reduction of consumption of 
alcoholic beverages by minors, and for technical assistance and 
training: Provided further, That upon the enactment of reauthorization 
legislation for Juvenile Justice Programs under the Juvenile Justice and 
Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, funding provisions in 
this Act shall from that date be subject to the provisions of that 
legislation and any provisions in this Act that are inconsistent with 
that legislation shall no longer have effect: Provided further, That of 
amounts made available under the Juvenile Justice Programs of the Office 
of Justice Programs to carry out part B (relating to Federal Assistance 
for State and Local Programs), subpart II of part C (relating to Special 
Emphasis Prevention and Treatment Programs), part D (relating to Gang-
Free Schools and Communities and Community-Based Gang Intervention), 
part E (relating to State Challenge Activities), and part G (relating to 
Mentoring) of title II of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974, and to carry out the At-Risk Children's Program 
under title V of that Act, not more than 10 percent of each such amount 
may be used for research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed 
to benefit the programs or activities authorized under the appropriate 
part or title, and not more than 2 percent of each such amount may be 
used for training and technical assistance activities designed to 
benefit the programs or activities authorized under that part or title.

    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance, $10,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
developing, testing, and demonstrating programs designed to reduce drug 
use among juveniles.

    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-66]]

of 1990, as amended, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended, as 
                 authorized by section 214B of the Act.

    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized by part 
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such sums as are necessary, as authorized 
by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340).

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses in accordance with distributions, 
procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney General.
    Sec. 102. Authorities contained in the Department of Justice 
Appropriation Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1980 (Public Law 96-132; 93 
Stat. 1040 (1979)), as amended, shall remain in effect until the 
termination date of this Act or until the effective date of a Department 
of Justice Appropriation Authorization Act, whichever is earlier.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case of 
rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 105. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 104 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
     <<NOTE: 18 USC 3059 note.>> Sec. 106. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $10,000,000 of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used to establish and publicize a program under which 
publicly advertised, extraordinary rewards may be paid, which shall not 
be subject to spending limitations contained in sections 3059 and 3072 
of title 18, United States Code: Provided, That any reward of $100,000 
or more, up to a maximum of $2,000,000, may not be made without the 
personal approval of the President or the Attorney General and such 
approval may not be delegated.

    Sec. 107. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act, including those derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund, may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-67]]

as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not 
be available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
     <<NOTE: 18 USC 4043 note.>> Sec. 108. For fiscal year 1999 and 
thereafter, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons may make expenditures 
out of the Commissary Fund of the Federal Prison System, regardless of 
whether any such expenditure is security-related, for programs, goods, 
and services for the benefit of inmates (to the extent the provision of 
those programs, goods, or services to inmates is not otherwise 
prohibited by law), including--
            (1) the installation, operation, and maintenance of the 
        Inmate Telephone System;
            (2) the payment of all the equipment purchased or leased in 
        connection with the Inmate Telephone System; and
            (3) the salaries, benefits, and other expenses of personnel 
        who install, operate, and maintain the Inmate Telephone System.

    Sec. 109. (a) Section 3201 of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (28 
U.S.C. 509 note) is amended to read as follows--
    ``Appropriations in this or any other Act hereafter for the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service are available, in an amount of 
not to exceed $25,000 each per fiscal year, to pay humanitarian expenses 
incurred by or for any employee thereof (or any member of the employee's 
immediate family) that results from or is incident to serious illness, 
serious injury, or death occurring to the employee while on official 
duty or business.''.

    (b) The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act 
of 1996 is amended by striking section 626 (8 U.S.C. 1363b).
    Sec. 110. Any amounts credited to the ``Legalization Account'' 
established under section 245(c)(7)(B) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(c)(7)(B)) are transferred to the 
``Examinations Fee Account'' established under section 286(m) of that 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)).
    Sec. 111. The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall conduct a 
study, not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, of private prisons that evaluates the growth and development of the 
private prison industry during the past 15 years, training 
qualifications of personnel at private prisons, and the security 
procedures of such facilities, and compares the general standards and 
conditions between private prisons and Federal prisons. The results of 
such study shall be submitted to the Committees on the Judiciary and 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 1999, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice 
Programs of the Department of Justice--
            (1) may make grants, or enter into cooperative agreements 
        and contracts, for the Office of Justice Programs and the 
        component organizations of that Office; and
            (2) shall have final authority over all grants, cooperative 
        agreements, and contracts made, or entered into, for the Office 
        of Justice Programs and the component organizations of that 
        Office.

    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect 
to any grant program for which amounts are made available under this 
title, the term ``tribal'' means of or relating to an Indian

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-68]]

tribe (as that term is defined in section 102(2) of the Federally 
Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a(2))).
    Sec. 114. Section 286(e)(1)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(e)(1)(C)) is amended by inserting ``State'' and a 
comma immediately before ``territory''.
    Sec. 115. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 1999, the Attorney General may obligate any funds 
appropriated for or reimbursed to the Counterterrorism programs, 
projects or activities of the Department of Justice to purchase or lease 
equipment or any related items, or to acquire interim services, without 
regard to any otherwise applicable Federal acquisition rule, if the 
Attorney General determines that--
            (A) there is an exigent need for the equipment, related 
        items, or services in order to support an ongoing 
        counterterrorism, national security, or computer-crime 
        investigation or prosecution;
            (B) the equipment, related items, or services required are 
        not available within the Department of Justice; and
            (C) adherence to that Federal acquisition rule would--
                    (i) delay the timely acquisition of the equipment, 
                related items, or services; and
                    (ii) adversely affect an ongoing counterterrorism, 
                national security, or computer-crime investigation or 
                prosecution.

    (2) In this subsection, the term ``Federal acquisition rule'' means 
any provision of title II or IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act, the Small Business Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
or any other provision of law or regulation that establishes policies, 
procedures, requirements, conditions, or restrictions for procurements 
by the head of a department or agency or the Federal Government.

    (b) The Attorney General shall immediately notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in writing 
of each expenditure under subsection (a), which notification shall 
include sufficient information to explain the circumstances 
necessitating the exercise of the authority under that subsection.
    Sec. 116. Section 110(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and 
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1221 note) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``later than'' and all that follows through ``Attorney'' and 
        inserting ``later than October 15, 1998 (and not later than 
        March 30, 2001, in the case of land border ports of entry and 
        sea ports), the Attorney'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) not significantly disrupt trade, tourism, or other 
        legitimate cross-border traffic at land border ports of 
        entry.''.

    Sec. 117. Section 402 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
842) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(5), by inserting ``negligently'' 
        before ``fail'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-69]]

            (2) in subsection (a)(10), by inserting ``negligently'' 
        before ``to fail''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)'';
                    (B) by inserting ``subparagraph (B) of this 
                paragraph and'' before ``paragraph (2)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(B) In the case of a violation of paragraph (5) or (10) of 
subsection (a), the civil penalty shall not exceed $10,000.''.
    Sec. 118. The General Accounting Office shall--
            (1) monitor the compliance of the Department of Justice and 
        all United States Attorneys with the ``Guidance on the Use of 
        the False Claims Act in Civil Health Care Matters'' issued by 
        the Department of Justice on June 3, 1998, including any 
        revisions to that guidance; and
            (2) not later than February 1, 1999, and again not later 
        than August 2, 1999, submit a report on such compliance to the 
        Committees on the Judiciary and the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 119. Firearms Safety. (a) Secure Gun Storage Device.--Section 
921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(34) The term `secure gun storage or safety device' means--
            ``(A) a device that, when installed on a firearm, is 
        designed to prevent the firearm from being operated without 
        first deactivating the device;
            ``(B) a device incorporated into the design of the firearm 
        that is designed to prevent the operation of the firearm by 
        anyone not having access to the device; or
            ``(C) a safe, gun safe, gun case, lock box, or other device 
        that is designed to be or can be used to store a firearm and 
        that is designed to be unlocked only by means of a key, a 
        combination, or other similar means.''.

    (b) Certification Required in Application for Dealer's License.--
Section 923(d)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) in the case of an application to be licensed as a 
        dealer, the applicant certifies that secure gun storage or 
        safety devices will be available at any place in which firearms 
        are sold under the license to persons who are not licensees 
        (subject to the exception that in any case in which a secure gun 
        storage or safety device is temporarily unavailable because of 
        theft, casualty loss, consumer sales, backorders from a 
        manufacturer, or any other similar reason beyond the control of 
        the licensee, the dealer shall not be considered to be in 
        violation of the requirement under this subparagraph to make 
        available such a device).''.

    (c) Revocation of Dealer's License for Failure To Have Secure Gun 
Storage or Safety Devices Available.--The first sentence of section 
923(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ``or fails to have secure gun 
storage or safety devices available at any place in which firearms are 
sold under the license to persons who are

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-70]]

not licensees (except that in any case in which a secure gun storage or 
safety device is temporarily unavailable because of theft, casualty 
loss, consumer sales, backorders from a manufacturer, or any other 
similar reason beyond the control of the licensee, the dealer shall not 
be considered to be in violation of the requirement to make available 
such a device)''.
    (d) Statutory Construction; Evidence.--
             <<NOTE: 18 USC 923 note.>> (1) Statutory construction.--
        Nothing in the amendments made by this section shall be 
        construed--
                    (A) as creating a cause of action against any 
                firearms dealer or any other person for any civil 
                liability; or
                    (B) as establishing any standard of care.
            (2) Evidence.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        evidence regarding compliance or noncompliance with the 
        amendments made by this section shall not be admissible as 
        evidence in any proceeding of any court, agency, board, or other 
        entity.

     <<NOTE: 18 USC 921 note.>> (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act.

    Sec. 120. Firearm Safety Education Grants. (a) In General.--Section 
510 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3760) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) undertaking educational and training programs for--
                    ``(A) criminal justice personnel; and
                    ``(B) the general public, with respect to the lawful 
                and safe ownership, storage, carriage, or use of 
                firearms, including the provision of secure gun storage 
                or safety devices;'';
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by inserting 
        before the period the following: ``and is authorized to make 
        grants to, or enter into contracts with, those persons and 
        entities to carry out the purposes specified in subsection 
        (a)(1)(B) in accordance with subsection (c)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(c)(1) In accordance with this subsection, the Director may make a 
grant to, or enter into a contract with, any person or entity referred 
to in subsection (b) to provide for a firearm safety program that, in a 
manner consistent with subsection (a)(1)(B), provides for general public 
training and dissemination of information concerning firearm safety, 
secure gun storage, and the lawful ownership, carriage, or use of 
firearms, including the provision of secure gun storage or safety 
devices.
    ``(2) Funds made available under a grant under paragraph (1) may not 
be used (either directly or by supplanting non-Federal funds) for 
advocating or promoting gun control, including making communications 
that are intended to directly or indirectly affect the passage of 
Federal, State, or local legislation intended to restrict or control the 
purchase or use of firearms.
    ``(3) Except as provided in paragraph (4), each firearm safety 
program that receives funding under this subsection shall provide for 
evaluations that shall be developed pursuant to guidelines that the 
Director of the National Institute of Justice of the Department of 
Justice, in consultation with the Director of the Bureau of Justice

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-71]]

Assistance and recognized private entities that have expertise in 
firearms safety, education and training, shall establish.
    ``(4) With respect to a firearm safety program that receives funding 
under this section, the Director may waive the evaluation requirement 
described in paragraph (3) if the Director determines that the program--
            ``(A) is not of a sufficient size to justify an evaluation; 
        or
            ``(B) is designed primarily to provide material resources 
        and supplies, and that activity would not justify an 
        evaluation.''.

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 3760 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the earlier of--
            (1) October 1, 1998; or
                       (2) the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 121. Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (5) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(5) who, being an alien--
                    ``(A) is illegally or unlawfully in the United 
                States; or
                    ``(B) except as provided in subsection (y)(2), has 
                been admitted to the United States under a nonimmigrant 
                visa (as that term is defined in section 101(a)(26) of 
                the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                1101(a)(26)));'';
            (2) in subsection (g), by striking paragraph (5) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(5) who, being an alien--
                    ``(A) is illegally or unlawfully in the United 
                States; or
                    ``(B) except as provided in subsection (y)(2), has 
                been admitted to the United States under a nonimmigrant 
                visa (as that term is defined in section 101(a)(26) of 
                the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                1101(a)(26)));'';
            (3) in subsection (s)(3)(B), by striking clause (v) and 
        inserting the following:
                          ``(v) is not an alien who--
                                    ``(I) is illegally or unlawfully in 
                                the United States; or
                                    ``(II) subject to subsection (y)(2), 
                                has been admitted to the United States 
                                under a nonimmigrant visa (as that term 
                                is defined in section 101(a)(26) of the 
                                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                                U.S.C. 1101(a)(26)));''; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (x) the following:

    ``(y) Provisions Relating to Aliens Admitted Under Nonimmigrant 
Visas.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    ``(A) the term `alien' has the same meaning as in 
                section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
                (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)); and
                    ``(B) the term `nonimmigrant visa' has the same 
                meaning as in section 101(a)(26) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(26)).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-72]]

            ``(2) Exceptions.--Subsections (d)(5)(B), (g)(5)(B), and 
        (s)(3)(B)(v)(II) do not apply to any alien who has been lawfully 
        admitted to the United States under a nonimmigrant visa, if that 
        alien is--
                    ``(A) admitted to the United States for lawful 
                hunting or sporting purposes or is in possession of a 
                hunting license or permit lawfully issued in the United 
                States;
                    ``(B) an official representative of a foreign 
                government who is--
                          ``(i) accredited to the United States 
                      Government or the Government's mission to an 
                      international organization having its headquarters 
                      in the United States; or
                          ``(ii) en route to or from another country to 
                      which that alien is accredited;
                    ``(C) an official of a foreign government or a 
                distinguished foreign visitor who has been so designated 
                by the Department of State; or
                    ``(D) a foreign law enforcement officer of a 
                friendly foreign government entering the United States 
                on official law enforcement business.
            ``(3) Waiver.--
                    ``(A) Conditions for waiver.--Any individual who has 
                been admitted to the United States under a nonimmigrant 
                visa may receive a waiver from the requirements of 
                subsection (g)(5), if--
                          ``(i) the individual submits to the Attorney 
                      General a petition that meets the requirements of 
                      subparagraph (C); and
                          ``(ii) the Attorney General approves the 
                      petition.
                    ``(B) Petition.--Each petition under subparagraph 
                (B) shall--
                          ``(i) demonstrate that the petitioner has 
                      resided in the United States for a continuous 
                      period of not less than 180 days before the date 
                      on which the petition is submitted under this 
                      paragraph; and
                          ``(ii) include a written statement from the 
                      embassy or consulate of the petitioner, 
                      authorizing the petitioner to acquire a firearm or 
                      ammunition and certifying that the alien would 
                      not, absent the application of subsection 
                      (g)(5)(B), otherwise be prohibited from such 
                      acquisition under subsection (g).
                    ``(C) Approval of petition.--The Attorney General 
                shall approve a petition submitted in accordance with 
                this paragraph, if the Attorney General determines that 
                waiving the requirements of subsection (g)(5)(B) with 
                respect to the petitioner--
                          ``(i) would be in the interests of justice; 
                      and
                          ``(ii) would not jeopardize the public 
                      safety.''.

    Sec. 122. Section 3486(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``or any act or activity involving a Federal 
offense relating to the sexual exploitation or other abuse of 
children,'' after ``health care offense,''.
    Sec. 123. Section 170102 of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14072) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``or'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-73]]

            (2) in subsection (g)(3), by striking ``minimally 
        sufficient'' and inserting ``State sexual offender''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (i) to read as follows:

    ``(i) Penalty.--A person who is--
            ``(1) required to register under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) 
        of subsection (g) of this section and knowingly fails to comply 
        with this section;
            ``(2) required to register under a sexual offender 
        registration program in the person's State of residence and 
        knowingly fails to register in any other State in which the 
        person is employed, carries on a vocation, or is a student;
            ``(3) described in section 4042(c)(4) of title 18, United 
        States Code, and knowingly fails to register in any State in 
        which the person resides, is employed, carries on a vocation, or 
        is a student following release from prison or sentencing to 
        probation; or
            ``(4) sentenced by a court martial for conduct in a category 
        specified by the Secretary of Defense under section 115(a)(8)(C) 
        of title I of Public Law 105-119, and knowingly fails to 
        register in any State in which the person resides, is employed, 
        carries on a vocation, or is a student following release from 
        prison or sentencing to probation, shall, in the case of a first 
        offense under this subsection, be imprisoned for not more than 1 
        year and, in the case of a second or subsequent offense under 
        this subsection, be imprisoned for not more than 10 years.''.

     <<NOTE: 28 USC 534 note.>> Sec. 124. (a)(1) A nursing facility or 
home health care agency may submit a request to the Attorney General to 
conduct a search and exchange of records described in subsection (b) 
regarding an applicant for employment if the employment position is 
involved in direct patient care.
      (2) A nursing facility or home health care agency requesting a 
search and exchange of records under this section shall submit to the 
Attorney General through the appropriate State agency or agency 
designated by the Attorney General a copy of an employment applicant's 
fingerprints, a statement signed by the applicant authorizing the 
nursing facility or home health care agency to request the search and 
exchange of records, and any other identification information not more 
than 7 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays 
under section 6103(a) of title 5, United States Code) after acquiring 
the fingerprints, signed statement, and information.

    (b) Pursuant to any submission that complies with the requirements 
of subsection (a), the Attorney General shall search the records of the 
Criminal Justice Information Services Division of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for any criminal history records corresponding to the 
fingerprints or other identification information submitted. The Attorney 
General shall provide any corresponding information resulting from the 
search to the appropriate State agency or agency designated by the 
Attorney General to receive such information.
    (c) Information regarding an applicant for employment in a nursing 
facility or home health care agency obtained pursuant to this section 
may be used only by the facility or agency requesting the information 
and only for the purpose of determining the suitability of the applicant 
for employment by the facility or agency in a position involved in 
direct patient care.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-74]]

    (d) The Attorney General may charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed 
$50 per request, to any nursing facility or home health care agency 
requesting a search and exchange of records pursuant to this section.
    (e) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress on the number of 
requests for searches and exchanges of records made under this section 
by nursing facilities and home health care agencies and the disposition 
of such requests.

    (f) Whoever knowingly uses any information obtained pursuant to this 
section for a purpose other than as authorized under subsection (c) 
shall be fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, 
imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both.
    (g) A nursing facility or home health care agency that, in denying 
employment for an applicant, reasonably relies upon information provided 
by the Attorney General pursuant to this section shall not be liable in 
any action brought by the applicant based on the employment 
determination resulting from the incompleteness or inaccuracy of the 
information.
    (h) The Attorney General may promulgate such regulations as are 
necessary to carry out this section, including regulations regarding the 
security, confidentiality, accuracy, use, destruction, and dissemination 
of information, audits and recordkeeping, the imposition of fees, and 
any necessary modifications to the definitions contained in subsection 
(i).
    (i) In this section:
            (1) The term ``home health care agency'' means an agency 
        that provides home health care or personal care services on a 
        visiting basis in a place of residence.
            (2) The term ``nursing facility'' means a facility or 
        institution (or a distinct part of an institution) that is 
        primarily engaged in providing to residents of the facility or 
        institution nursing care, including skilled nursing care, and 
        related services for individuals who require medical or nursing 
        care.

    (j) This section shall apply without fiscal year limitation.
     <<NOTE: 5 USC 5724a note.>> Sec. 125. Effective with the enactment 
of this Act, and in any fiscal year hereafter, the Attorney General and 
the Secretary of the Treasury may, for their respective agencies, extend 
the payment of relocation expenses listed in section 5724a(b)(1) of 
Title 5 of the United States Code to include the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the 
territories and possessions of the United States.

    Sec. 126. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the total 
of the amounts appropriated under this title of this Act is reduced by 
$20,038,000, out of which the reductions for each account shall be made 
in accordance with the chart on Year 2000 funding dated September 17, 
1998, provided to Congress by the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 127. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in any action 
brought by a prisoner under section 1979 of the Revised Statutes (42 
U.S.C. 1983) against a Federal, State, or local jail, prison, or 
correctional facility, or any employee or former employee thereof, 
arising out of the incarceration of that prisoner--
            (1) the financial records of a person employed or formerly 
        employed by the Federal, State, or local jail, prison, or 
        correctional facility, shall not be subject to disclosure 
        without the written consent of that person or pursuant to a 
        court order,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-75]]

        unless a verdict of liability has been entered against that 
        person; and
            (2) the home address, home phone number, social security 
        number, identity of family members, personal tax returns, and 
        personal banking information of a person described in paragraph 
        (1), and any other records or information of a similar nature 
        relating to that person, shall not be subject to disclosure 
        without the written consent of that person, or pursuant to a 
        court order.

    Sec. 128. (a) The numerical limitation set forth in section 209(b) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1159(b)) shall not 
apply to any alien described in subsection (b).

    (b) An alien described in subsection (a) is an alien who was a 
United States Government employee, employee of a nongovernmental 
organization based in the United States, or other Iraqi national who was 
moved to Guam by the United States Government in 1996 or 1997 pursuant 
to an arrangement made by the United States Government, and who was 
granted asylum in the United States under section 208(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158(a)).
    Sec. 129. (a) Amendments to Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974.--
            (1) In general.--Section 103 of the Juvenile Justice and 
        Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5603) is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(8) the term `unit of local government' means--
                    ``(A) any city, county, township, town, borough, 
                parish, village, or other general purpose political 
                subdivision of a State;
                    ``(B) any law enforcement district or judicial 
                enforcement district that--
                          ``(i) is established under applicable State 
                      law; and
                          ``(ii) has the authority to, in a manner 
                      independent of other State entities, establish a 
                      budget and raise revenues;
                    ``(C) an Indian Tribe that performs law enforcement 
                functions, as determined by the Secretary of the 
                Interior; or
                    ``(D) for the purposes of assistance eligibility, 
                any agency of the government of the District of Columbia 
                or the Federal Government that performs law enforcement 
                functions in and for--
                          ``(i) the District of Columbia; or
                          ``(ii) any Trust Territory of the United 
                      States;''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (9), by striking ``units of general 
                local government'' and inserting ``units of local 
                government''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 221(a) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5631(a)) 
                is amended by striking ``units of general local 
                government'' each place that term appears and inserting 
                ``units of local government''.
                    (B) Section 222(c) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5632(c)) 
                is

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-76]]

                amended by striking ``units of general local 
                government'' each place that term appears and inserting 
                ``units of local government''.
                    (C) Section 223(a) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5633(a)) 
                is amended--
                          (i) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by striking ``units of general 
                                local government'' and inserting ``units 
                                of local government''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``local 
                                governments'' and inserting ``units of 
                                local government'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                                ``units of general local government'' 
                                and inserting ``units of local 
                                government''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``unit of general local 
                                government'' and inserting ``unit of 
                                local government'';
                          (iii) in paragraph (6), by striking ``unit of 
                      general local government'' and inserting ``unit of 
                      local government''; and
                          (iv) in paragraph (10), by striking ``unit of 
                      general local government'' and inserting ``unit of 
                      local government''.
                    (D) Section 244(5) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5654(5)) 
                is amended by striking ``units of general local 
                government'' and inserting ``units of local 
                government''.
                    (E) Section 372(a)(3) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
                5714b(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``unit of general 
                local government'' and inserting ``unit of local 
                government''.
                    (F) Section 505(a) of the Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5784(a)) 
                is amended by striking ``units of general local 
                government'' and inserting ``units of local 
                government''.

    (b) Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.--Section 
901(3) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 3791(3)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) `unit of local government' means--
                    ``(A) any city, county, township, town, borough, 
                parish, village, or other general purpose political 
                subdivision of a State;
                    ``(B) any law enforcement district or judicial 
                enforcement district that--
                          ``(i) is established under applicable State 
                      law; and
                          ``(ii) has the authority to, in a manner 
                      independent of other State entities, establish a 
                      budget and impose taxes;
                    ``(C) an Indian Tribe (as that term is defined in 
                section 103 of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
                Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5603)) that performs 
                law enforcement functions, as determined by the 
                Secretary of the Interior; or
                    ``(D) for the purposes of assistance eligibility, 
                any agency of the government of the District of Columbia 
                or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-77]]

                the Federal Government that performs law enforcement 
                functions in and for--
                          ``(i) the District of Columbia; or
                          ``(ii) any Trust Territory of the United 
                      States;''.

    Sec. 130. For payments of judgments against the United States and 
compromise settlements of claims in suits against the United States 
arising from the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement 
Act (FIRREA) and its implementation, such sums as may be necessary, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the foregoing authority 
is available solely for payment of judgments and compromise settlements: 
Provided further, That payment of litigation expenses is available under 
existing authority as set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Department of 
Justice, dated October 2, 1998, and may not be paid from amounts 
provided in this Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

<<NOTE: Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999.>> TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$24,200,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     International Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $44,495,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-78]]

3703; full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate families 
of employees stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted 
overseas; travel and transportation of employees of the United States 
and Foreign Commercial Service between two points abroad, without regard 
to 49 U.S.C. 1517; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; 
not to exceed $327,000 for official representation expenses abroad; 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to 
exceed $30,000 per vehicle; obtain insurance on official motor vehicles; 
and rent tie lines and teletype equipment, $286,264,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $1,600,000 is to be derived from fees 
to be retained and used by the International Trade Administration, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided, That of the $302,757,000 
provided for in direct obligations (of which $284,664,000 is 
appropriated from the General Fund, $1,600,000 is derived from fee 
collections, and $16,493,000 is derived from unobligated balances and 
deobligations from prior years), $59,280,000 shall be for Trade 
Development, $17,779,000 shall be for Market Access and Compliance, 
$31,047,000 shall be for the Import Administration, $182,736,000 shall 
be for the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, and $11,915,000 
shall be for Executive Direction and Administration: Provided further, 
That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of 
section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities without regard to section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade and 
Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4912); and that for the purpose 
of this Act, contributions under the provisions of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act shall include payment for 
assessments for services provided as part of these activities.

                          Export Administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; 
rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and expenses 
of alteration, repair, or improvement; payment of tort claims, in the 
manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such 
claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $15,000 for official 
representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to informers 
under the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use and 
motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special requirement vehicles 
eligible for purchase without regard to any price limitation otherwise 
established by law, $52,331,000 to remain available until expended, of 
which $1,877,000 shall be for inspections and other activities

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-79]]

related to national security: Provided, That the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities: Provided further, 
That payments and contributions collected and accepted for materials or 
services provided as part of such activities may be retained for use in 
covering the cost of such activities, and for providing information to 
the public with respect to the export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce and other export 
control programs of the United States and other governments: Provided 
further, That no funds may be obligated or expended for processing 
licenses for the export of satellites of United States origin (including 
commercial satellites and satellite components) to the People's Republic 
of China, unless, at least 15 days in advance, the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and the Senate and other appropriate 
Committees of the Congress are notified of such proposed action.

                   Economic Development Administration

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, Public 
Law 91-304, and such laws that were in effect immediately before 
September 30, 1982, and for trade adjustment assistance, $368,379,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading may be used directly or indirectly for 
attorneys' or consultants' fees in connection with securing grants and 
contracts made by the Economic Development Administration: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Commerce may provide financial assistance for projects to be located 
on military installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment 
to grantees eligible for assistance under the Public Works and Economic 
Development Act of 1965, as amended, without it being required that the 
grantee have title or ability to obtain a lease for the property, for 
the useful life of the project, when in the opinion of the Secretary of 
Commerce, such financial assistance is necessary for the economic 
development of the area: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Commerce may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, consult with the 
Secretary of Defense regarding the title to land on military 
installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $24,000,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title I 
of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title
II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency 
Drought Relief Act of 1977.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-80]]

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                      minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $27,000,000.

                 Economic and Information Infrastructure

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$48,490,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000.

                          Bureau of the Census

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $136,147,000.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For expenses necessary to conduct the decennial census, 
$1,026,936,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, That, of 
this amount, not less than $75,000,000 shall be for the following 
activities: (1) $23,000,000 for additional staffing requirements for 
local field offices; (2) $17,000,000 for additional promotion, outreach, 
and marketing activities; and (3) $35,000,000 for additional costs 
associated with modifications to decennial census questionnaires.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Census Monitoring Board 
as authorized by section 210 of Public Law 105-119, $4,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $155,966,000, 
to remain available until expended.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $10,940,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies 
for costs incurred in spectrum management, analysis, and operations, and 
related services and such fees shall be retained and used as offsetting 
collections for costs of such spectrum services, to remain available 
until <<NOTE: 47 USC 903 note. public telecommunications facilities, 
planning and construction>> expended: Provided further, That hereafter, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, NTIA shall not authorize 
spectrum use or provide any spectrum

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-81]]

functions pursuant to the NTIA Organization Act, 47 U.S.C. 902-903, to 
any Federal entity without reimbursement as required by NTIA for such 
spectrum management costs, and Federal entities withholding payment of 
such cost shall not use spectrum: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections 
all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other Government 
agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications research, 
engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of the NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
       Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $21,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $1,800,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of the Act, the prior year 
unobligated balances may be made available for grants for projects for 
which applications have been submitted and approved during any fiscal 
year: Provided further, That, hereafter, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Pan-Pacific Education and Communication 
Experiments by Satellite (PEACESAT) Program is eligible to compete for 
Public Telecommunications Facilities, Planning and Construction funds.

                    information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $18,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $3,000,000 shall be available for program administration and 
other support activities as authorized by section 391: Provided further, 
That, of the funds appropriated herein, not to exceed 5 percent may be 
available for telecommunications research activities for projects 
related directly to the development of a national information 
infrastructure: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the requirements 
of section 392(a) and 392(c) of the Act, these funds may be used for the 
planning and construction of telecommunications networks for the 
provision of educational, cultural, health care, public information, 
public safety, or other social services: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no entity that receives 
telecommunications services at preferential rates under section 254(h) 
of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254(h)) or receives 
assistance under the regional information sharing systems grant program 
of the Department of Justice under part M of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796h) may use 
funds under a grant under this heading to cover any costs of the entity 
that would otherwise be covered by such preferential rates or such 
assistance, as the case may be.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-82]]

                       Patent and Trademark Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Patent and Trademark Office provided 
for by law, including defense of suits instituted against the 
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, $643,026,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of this amount, $643,026,000 
shall be derived from offsetting collections assessed and collected 
pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376, and shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
1999, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation from the 
General Fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That, during fiscal year 
1999, should the total amount of offsetting fee collections be less than 
$643,026,000, the total amounts available to the Patent and Trademark 
Office shall be reduced accordingly: Provided further, That any amount 
received in excess of $643,026,000 in fiscal year 1999 shall remain 
available until expended, but shall not be available for obligation 
until October 1, 1999: Provided further, That the amounts charged for 
patent fees under 35 U.S.C. 41(a) and (b) shall be the amounts charged 
by the Patent and Trademark Office on September 30, 1998, including any 
applicable surcharges collected pursuant to section 8001 of Public Law 
103-66: Provided further, That such fees shall be credited as offsetting 
collections and shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation: Provided further, That upon enactment of a statute 
reauthorizing the Patent and Trademark Office or establishing a 
successor agency or agencies, and upon the subsequent enactment of a new 
patent fee schedule, the fifth proviso in this paragraph shall no longer 
have effect: Provided further, That, in addition to amounts otherwise 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $102,000,000 of such 
amounts collected shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 1999 
for purposes as authorized by law: Provided further, That any amount 
received in excess of $102,000,000 in fiscal year 1999 shall remain 
available until expended, but shall not be available for obligation 
until October 1, 1999.

                         Science and Technology

                        Technology Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology/Office 
of Technology Policy, $9,495,000, of which not to exceed $1,600,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $280,136,000, to remain available until expended,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-83]]

of which not to exceed $1,625,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund''.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership of 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, $106,800,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 15 USC 278k 
note.>> That notwithstanding the time limitations imposed by 15 U.S.C. 
278k(c) (1) and (5) on the duration of Federal financial assistance that 
may be awarded by the Secretary of Commerce to Regional Centers for the 
transfer of Manufacturing Technology (``Centers''), such Federal 
financial assistance for a Center may continue beyond six years and may 
be renewed for additional periods, not to exceed one year, at a rate not 
to exceed one-third of the Center's total annual costs or the level of 
funding in the sixth year, whichever is less, subject before any such 
renewal to a positive evaluation of the Center and to a finding by the 
Secretary of Commerce that continuation of Federal funding to the Center 
is in the best interest of the Regional Centers for the transfer of 
Manufacturing Technology Program: Provided further, That the Center's 
most recent performance evaluation is positive, and the Center has 
submitted a reapplication which has successfully passed merit review.

    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced Technology 
Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$203,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$66,000,000 shall be available for the award of new grants, and of which 
not to exceed $500,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund''.

                   construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, and for renovation of existing facilities, not 
otherwise provided for the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, $56,714,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the amounts provided under 
this heading, $40,000,000 shall be available for obligation and 
expenditure only after submission of a plan for the expenditure of these 
funds, in accordance with section 605 of this Act.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National <<NOTE: 33 USC 851.>> Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
including maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft; not to exceed 
250 commissioned officers on the active list as of September 30, 1999; 
grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations for the 
purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; 
and relocation of facilities as authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; 
$1,579,844,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
and donations received by the National Ocean Service for

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-84]]

the management of the national marine sanctuaries may be retained and 
used for the salaries and expenses associated with those activities, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, That in addition, 
$63,381,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'': Provided further, That grants to States pursuant 
to sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as 
amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $31,439,000 shall be expended for Executive Direction and 
Administration, which consists of the Offices of the Under Secretary, 
the Executive Secretariat, Policy and Strategic Planning, International 
Affairs, Legislative Affairs, Public Affairs, Sustainable Development, 
the Chief Scientist, and the General Counsel: Provided further, That the 
aforementioned offices, excluding the Office of the General Counsel, 
shall not be augmented by personnel details, temporary transfers of 
personnel on either a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis or any other 
type of formal or informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or 
funds on either a temporary or long-term basis above the level of 33 
personnel: Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall make 
funds available to implement the mitigation recommendations identified 
subsequent to the ``1995 Secretary's Report to Congress on Adequacy of 
NEXRAD Coverage and Degradation of Weather Services'', and shall ensure 
continuation of weather service coverage for these communities until 
mitigation activities are completed: Provided further, That no general 
administrative charge shall be applied against any assigned activity 
included in this Act and, further, that any direct administrative 
expenses applied against assigned activities shall be limited to five 
percent of the funds provided for that assigned activity.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, $584,677,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $67,667,000 is available for the 
advanced weather interactive processing system, and may be available for 
obligation and expenditure only pursuant to a certification by the 
Secretary of Commerce that the total cost to complete the acquisition 
and deployment of the advanced weather interactive processing system 
through Build 4.2 and NOAA Port system, including program management, 
operations, and maintenance costs through deployment, will not exceed 
$71,790,000: Provided further, That unexpended balances of amounts 
previously made available in the ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'' account for activities funded under this heading may be 
transferred to and merged with this account, to remain available until 
expended for the purposes for which the funds were originally 
                              appropriated.

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed $4,000,000, for 
purposes set forth in sections 308(b)(2)(A), 308(b)(2)(B)(v), and 315(e) 
of such Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-85]]

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $953,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                      foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as 
amended (Public Law 100-627), and the American Fisheries Promotion Act 
(Public Law 96-561), to be derived from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to exceed 
$189,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fisheries finance program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $338,000, as authorized by the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be used for 
direct loans for any new fishing vessel that will increase the 
harvesting capacity in any United States fishery.

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official entertainment, $30,000,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $21,000,000.

                       Patent and Trademark Office

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading from prior 
year appropriations, fees collected in this fiscal year, and balances of 
prior year fees, $71,000,000 are rescinded.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act shall 
be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 
(15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, 
and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may
be used for advanced payments not otherwise authorized

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-86]]

only upon the certification of officials designated by the Secretary of 
Commerce that such payments are in the public interest.

    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that are 
under the control of the United States Air Force or the United States 
Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: 13 USC 23 note.>> None of the funds provided in 
this or any previous Act, or hereinafter made available to the 
Department of Commerce, shall be available to reimburse the Unemployment 
Trust Fund or any other fund or account of the Treasury to pay for any 
expenses paid before October 1, 1992, as authorized by section 8501 of 
title 5, United States Code, for services performed after April 20, 
1990, by individuals appointed to temporary positions within the Bureau 
of the Census for purposes relating to the 1990 decennial census of 
population.

    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. (a) Should legislation be enacted to dismantle or 
reorganize the Department of Commerce, or any portion thereof, the 
Secretary of Commerce, no later than 90 days thereafter, shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and the Senate a plan for 
transferring funds provided in this Act to the appropriate successor 
organizations: Provided, That the plan shall include a proposal for 
transferring or rescinding funds appropriated herein for agencies or 
programs terminated under such legislation: Provided further, That such 
plan shall be transmitted in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
    (b) The Secretary of Commerce or the appropriate head of any 
successor organization(s) may use any available funds to carry out 
legislation dismantling or reorganizing the Department of Commerce, or 
any portion thereof, to cover the costs of actions relating to the 
abolishment, reorganization, or transfer of functions and any related 
personnel action, including voluntary separation incentives if 
authorized by such legislation: Provided, That the authority to transfer 
funds between appropriations accounts that may be necessary to carry out 
this section is provided in addition to authorities included under 
section 205 of this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry 
out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    Sec. 207. Any costs incurred by a Department or agency funded under 
this title resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this title or from actions taken

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-87]]

for the care and protection of loan collateral or grant property shall 
be absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
Department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

    Sec. 208. The Secretary of Commerce may award contracts for 
hydrographic, geodetic, and photogrammetric surveying and mapping 
services in accordance with title IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 541 et seq.).
    Sec. 209. The Secretary of Commerce may use the Commerce franchise 
fund for expenses and equipment necessary for the maintenance and 
operation of such administrative services as the Secretary determines 
may be performed more advantageously as central services, pursuant to 
section 403 of Public Law 103-356: Provided, That any inventories, 
equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to be provided by 
such fund, either on hand or on order, less the related liabilities or 
unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made for the purpose of 
providing capital shall be used to capitalize such fund: Provided 
further, That such fund shall be paid in advance from funds available to 
the Department and other Federal agencies for which such centralized 
services are performed, at rates which will return in full all expenses 
of operation, including accrued leave, depreciation of fund plant and 
equipment, amortization of automated data processing (ADP) software and 
systems (either acquired or donated), and an amount necessary to 
maintain a reasonable operating reserve, as determined by the Secretary: 
Provided further, That such fund shall provide services <<NOTE: 31 USC 
501 note.>> on a competitive basis: Provided further, That an amount not 
to exceed 4 percent of the total annual income to such fund may be 
retained in the fund for fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, to remain available until expended, to be used for the 
acquisition of capital equipment, and for the improvement and 
implementation of Department financial management, ADP, and other 
support systems: Provided further, That such amounts retained in the 
fund for fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year thereafter shall be 
available for obligation and expenditure only in accordance with section 
605 of this Act: Provided further, That no later than 30 days after the 
end of each fiscal year, amounts in excess of this reserve limitation 
shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury: Provided 
further, That such franchise fund pilot program shall terminate pursuant 
to section 403(f) of Public Law 103-356.

    Sec. 210. No funds may be used under this Act to process or register 
any application filed or submitted with the Patent and Trademark Office 
under the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the registration and 
protection of trademarks used in commerce, to carry out the provisions 
of certain international conventions, and for other purposes'', approved 
July 5, 1946, commonly referred to as the Trademark Act of 1946, as 
amended, after the date of enactment of this Act for a mark identical to 
the official tribal insignia of any federally recognized Indian tribe 
for a period of one year from the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-88]]

    Sec. 211. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
transaction or payment shall be authorized or approved pursuant to 
section 515.527 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect 
on September 9, 1998, with respect to a mark, trade name, or commercial 
name that is the same as or substantially similar to a mark, trade name, 
or commercial name that was used in connection with a business or assets 
that were confiscated unless the original owner of the mark, trade name, 
or commercial name, or the bona fide successor-in-interest has expressly 
consented.
    (2) No U.S. court shall recognize, enforce or otherwise validate any 
assertion of rights by a designated national based on common law rights 
or registration obtained under such section 515.527 of such a 
confiscated mark, trade name, or commercial name.

    (b) No U.S. court shall recognize, enforce or otherwise validate any 
assertion of treaty rights by a designated national or its successor-in-
interest under sections 44 (b) or (e) of the Trademark Act of 1946 (15 
U.S.C. 1126 (b) or (e)) for a mark, trade name, or commercial name that 
is the same as or substantially similar to a mark, trade name, or 
commercial name that was used in connection with a business or assets 
that were confiscated unless the original owner of such mark, trade 
name, or commercial name, or the bona fide successor-in-interest has 
expressly consented.
     <<NOTE: Regulations.>> (c) The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out the 
provisions of this section.

    (d) In this section:
            (1) The term ``designated national'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 515.305 of title 31, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, as in effect on September 9, 1998, and includes a 
        national of any foreign country who is a successor-in-interest 
        to a designated national.
            (2) The term ``confiscated'' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 515.336 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as 
        in effect on September 9, 1998.

    Sec. 212. (a) Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Commerce 
shall convey, at fair market value (as determined by the Secretary), to 
the city of Two Harbors, Minnesota, or its designee, the parcel of land 
described in subsection (c).
    (b) The Secretary may make the conveyance under subsection (a) only 
if the Secretary receives adequate assurances, as determined by the 
Secretary, that the conveyance is in accordance with the requirements of 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
    (c) The parcel of land referred to in subsection (a) consists of 
approximately 21.55 acres known as the J and J Casting site, in Lake 
County, Minnesota, together with a road easement, all as described in 
the deed of the United States Marshal, dated March 22, 1988, executed 
pursuant to the order of sale of the United States District Court for 
the District of Minnesota, dated May 15, 1987, in case Civil No. 5-86-
300.
    (d) The Secretary shall carry out this section acting through the 
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development.
    Sec. 213. The Secretary of Commerce, through the Under Secretary for 
Oceans and Atmosphere, is authorized to exchange, under such terms as 
the Secretary deems appropriate, all right, title, and interest in the 
28.16 acre Lena Point property near Juneau, Alaska, to site a National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-89]]

facility: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to enter into an 
agreement with the owner of the Lena Point site to modify existing rock 
quarry operations to minimize future site development costs, and to 
provide appropriated funds for project mitigation purposes: Provided 
further, That Section 2(b) of Public Law 104-91 is amended by striking 
``on Auke Cape near Juneau, Alaska'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``in 
Alaska''.
    Sec. 214. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) 
is authorized to provide an easement, lease, license or other long-term 
agreement to allow the State of Alaska to own, operate and maintain a 
laboratory, classroom, and office facility on the site of the NOAA 
facility and to accept and expend State funds for development of joint 
facilities that will be owned and operated by NOAA: Provided, That NOAA 
is authorized to collect operation and maintenance costs from the State 
of Alaska and to retain said funds for utility costs, and current and 
future facility maintenance costs.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.

    <<NOTE: The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1999.>> TITLE III--THE 
JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance, and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve, $31,059,000.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect of 
the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the Act approved 
May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $5,400,000, of which $2,364,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $16,101,000.

               United States Court of International Trade

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and 8 judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-90]]

U.S.C. 3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$11,804,000.

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges of 
the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the United 
States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate judges, 
and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary not 
otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $2,821,821,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $13,454,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects; and of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
for furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,515,000, to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                    violent crime reduction programs

    For activities of the Federal Judiciary as authorized by law, 
$41,043,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be derived 
from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as authorized by section 
190001(a) of Public Law 103-322, and sections 818 and 823 of Public Law 
104-132.

                            defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act (18 U.S.C. 3006A(e)); the compensation (in 
accordance with Criminal Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel; the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians ad litem 
acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or incompetent offenders 
in connection with transfers from the United States to foreign countries 
with which the United States has a treaty for the execution of penal 
sentences; and the compensation of attorneys appointed to represent 
jurors in civil actions for the protection of their employment, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d), $360,952,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-91]]

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)), $66,861,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

                             Court Security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment and 
protective services for the United States Courts in courtrooms and 
adjacent areas, including building ingress-egress control, inspection of 
packages, directed security patrols, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access to 
Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $174,569,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for security systems, 
to be expended directly or transferred to the United States Marshals 
Service, which shall be responsible for administering elements of the 
Judicial Security Program consistent with standards or guidelines agreed 
to by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States 
Courts and the Attorney General.

            Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $54,500,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                         Federal Judicial Center

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as authorized 
by Public Law 90-219, $17,716,000; of which $1,800,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2000, to provide education and training 
to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 is 
authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Judicial Retirement Funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as authorized 
by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $27,500,000; to the Judicial Survivors' Annuities 
Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c),

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-92]]

$7,800,000; and to the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' 
Retirement Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), $2,000,000.

                   United States Sentencing Commission

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $9,487,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                    General Provisions--The Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title which 
are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 303. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United States: 
Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $10,000 and shall 
be administered by the Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts in the capacity as 
Secretary of the Judicial Conference.

    This title may be cited as ``The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

  <<NOTE: Department of State and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999.>> TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including expenses authorized by the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended; 
representation to certain international organizations in which the 
United States participates pursuant to treaties, ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, or specific Acts of Congress; 
acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343, 40 U.S.C. 481(c), and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-93]]

22 U.S.C. 2674; and for expenses of general administration, 
$1,644,300,000: Provided, That, of the amount made available under this 
heading, not to exceed $4,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged 
with, funds in the ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular 
Service'' appropriations account, to be available only for emergency 
evacuations and terrorism rewards: Provided further, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, $500,000 shall be available only for 
the National Law Center for Inter-American Free Trade: 
Provided <<NOTE: 8 USC 1351 note.>> further, That notwithstanding 
section 140(a)(5), and the second sentence of section 140(a)(3), of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public 
Law 103-236), fees may be collected during fiscal years 1999 and 2000 
under the authority of section 140(a)(1) of that Act: Provided further, 
That all fees collected under the preceding proviso shall be deposited 
in fiscal years 1999 and 2000 as an offsetting collection to 
appropriations made under this heading to recover costs as set forth 
under section 140(a)(2) of that Act and shall remain available until 
expended.

    In addition, not to exceed $1,252,000 shall be derived from fees 
collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities 
located at the International Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
International Center Act (Public Law 90-553), as amended; in addition, 
as authorized by section 5 of such Act, $490,000, to be derived from the 
reserve authorized by that section, to be used for the purposes set out 
in that section; and, in addition, not to exceed $15,000, which shall be 
derived from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House 
facilities in accordance with section 46 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2718(a)).
    Notwithstanding section 402 of this Act, not to exceed 20 percent of 
the amounts made available in this Act in the appropriation accounts 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' under 
the heading ``Administration of Foreign Affairs'' may be transferred 
between such appropriation accounts: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this sentence shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of State and the Foreign Service, provided for by law, 
including expenses authorized by section 9 of the Act of August 31, 
1964, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3721), and the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, as amended, $355,000,000: Provided, That, of 
this amount, $813,333 shall be transferred to the Presidential Advisory 
Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States.

                         capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $80,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized in Public Law 103-236: 
Provided, That section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 shall not apply to 
funds available under this heading.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-94]]

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $27,495,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) 
of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (Public Law 96-465), as 
it relates to post inspections.

                        representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized by section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4085), $4,350,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services in accordance 
with the provisions of section 214 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4314) and 3 U.S.C. 208, $8,100,000, 
              to remain available until September 30, 2000.

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for, buildings that are owned or 
directly leased by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to 
funds otherwise available, the Main State Building, and carrying out the 
Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized by title IV of 
the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 
4851), $403,561,000, to remain available until expended as authorized by 
section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2696(c)): Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be available for acquisition of furniture and 
furnishings and generators for other departments and agencies.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service 
pursuant to the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3526(e), $5,500,000 to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 24(c) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)), of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
Repatriation Loans Program Account, subject to the same terms and 
conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $593,000, as authorized by section 4 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2671): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out 
the direct loan program, $607,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the Salaries and Expenses account under Administration of 
Foreign Affairs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-95]]

               payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, Public 
Law 96-8, $14,750,000.

      payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $132,500,000.

<<NOTE: 22 USC 269a note.>> International Organizations and Conferences

              contributions to international organizations

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $922,000,000: 
Provided, That any payment of arrearages shall be directed toward 
special activities that are mutually agreed upon by the United States 
and the respective international organization: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
a United States contribution to an international organization for the 
United States share of interest costs made known to the United States 
Government by such organization for loans incurred on or after October 
1, 1984, through external borrowings: Provided further, That, of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph, $100,000,000 may be made available 
only on a semi-annual basis pursuant to a certification by the Secretary 
of State on a semi-annual basis, that the United Nations has taken no 
action during the preceding 6 months to increase funding for any United 
Nations program without identifying an offsetting decrease during that 
6-month period elsewhere in the United Nations budget and cause the 
United Nations to exceed the expected reform budget for the biennium 
1998-1999 of $2,533,000,000: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$15,000,000 shall be transferred from funds made available under this 
heading to the ``International Conferences and Contingencies'' account 
for United States contributions to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban 
Treaty Preparatory Commission, except that such transferred funds may be 
obligated or expended only for Commission meetings and sessions, 
provisional technical secretariat salaries and expenses, other 
Commission administrative and training activities, including purchase of 
training equipment, and upgrades to existing internationally based 
monitoring systems involved in cooperative data sharing agreements with 
the United States as of the date of enactment of this Act, until the 
United States Senate ratifies the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 402 of this Act, not to 
exceed $1,223,000 may be transferred from the funds made
available under this heading to the ``International Conferences and 
Contingencies'' account for assessed contributions to new or provisional 
international organizations or for travel expenses of official delegates 
to international conferences: Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming of 
funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-96]]

the procedures set forth in that section: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,000,000 shall only be available to establish an international 
center for response to chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this paragraph may be 
obligated and expended to pay the full U.S. assessment to the civil 
budget of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

         contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $231,000,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission 
unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for the new or expanded 
mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an emergency, as 
far in advance as is practicable): (1) the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate and other appropriate 
committees of the Congress are notified of the estimated cost and length 
of the mission, the vital national interest that will be served, and the 
planned exit strategy; and (2) a reprogramming of funds pursuant to 
section 605 of this Act is submitted, and the procedures therein 
followed, setting forth the source of funds that will be used to pay for 
the cost of the new or expanded mission: Provided further, That funds 
shall be available for peacekeeping expenses only upon a certification 
by the Secretary of State to the appropriate committees of the Congress 
that American manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities 
to provide equipment, services, and material for United Nations 
peacekeeping activities equal to those being given to foreign 
manufacturers and suppliers: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading are available to pay the United States 
share of the cost of court monitoring that is part of any United Nations 
                          peacekeeping mission.

    For an additional amount for payment of arrearages to meet 
obligations of membership in the United Nations, and to pay assessed 
expenses of international peacekeeping activities, $475,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading for payment 
of arrearages may be obligated or expended unless such obligation or 
expenditure is expressly authorized by law: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading 
for payment of arrearages may be obligated or expended until such time 
as the share of the total of all assessed contributions for the regular 
budget of the United Nations does not exceed 22 percent for any single 
United Nations member, and the share of the budget for each assessed 
United Nations peacekeeping operation does not exceed 25 percent for any 
single United Nations member.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-97]]

International <<NOTE: 22 USC 269a note.>> Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
                      Acts of Congress, as follows:

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $19,551,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $5,939,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2696(c)).

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for the International 
Joint Commission and the International Boundary Commission, United 
States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between the United States 
and Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border Environment Cooperation 
Commission as authorized by Public Law 103-182, $5,733,000, of which not 
to exceed $9,000 shall be available for representation expenses incurred 
                 by the International Joint Commission.

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $14,549,000: Provided, 
That the United States' share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                  Other

                     payment to the asia foundation

    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by section 501 of 
Public Law 101-246, $8,250,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 24(c) of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(c)).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-98]]

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                   Arms Control and Disarmament Agency

                 arms control and disarmament activities

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided, for arms control, 
nonproliferation, and disarmament activities, $41,500,000, of which not 
to exceed $50,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses as authorized by the Act of September 26, 1961, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2551 et seq.).

                    United States Information Agency

                   international information programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
United States Information Agency, as authorized by the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2451 et seq.), the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.), and Reorganization 
Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), to
carry out international communication, educational and cultural 
activities; and to carry out related activities authorized by law, 
including employment, without regard to civil service and classification 
laws, of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000 of this 
appropriation), as authorized by section 801 of such Act of 1948 (22 
U.S.C. 1471), and entertainment, including official receptions, within 
the United States, not to exceed $25,000 as authorized by section 804(3) 
of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1474(3)), $455,246,000: Provided, That 
not to exceed $1,400,000 may be used for representation abroad as 
authorized by section 302 of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1452) and 
section 905 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085): 
Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, may be credited to this appropriation from fees or other 
payments received from or in connection with English teaching, library, 
motion pictures, and publication programs as authorized by section 810 
of such Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) and, notwithstanding any other 
law, fees from educational advising and counseling, and exchange visitor 
program services: Provided further, That not to exceed $920,000, to 
remain available until expended, may be used to carry out projects 
involving security construction and related improvements for agency 
facilities not physically located together with Department of State 
                           facilities abroad.

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized by the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, 
as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977 (91 Stat. 1636), $202,500,000, to remain available until expended 
as authorized by section 105 of such Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455): 
Provided, That not to exceed $800,000, to remain available until 
expended, may be credited to this appropriation from fees or other 
payments received from or in connection with English teaching and 
publication programs as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
Information and Educational

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-99]]

Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) and, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, fees from educational advising and counseling: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 402 of this Act, not to 
exceed $2,000,000 may be transferred from the funds made available under 
            this heading to the ``Technology Fund'' account.

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20
U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and earnings accruing to the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund on or before September 30, 1999, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be used to pay any salary or other 
compensation, or to enter into any contract providing for the payment 
thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for 
purposes which are not in accordance with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform 
Administrative Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for Non-profit 
Organizations), including the restrictions on compensation for personal 
                                services.

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
                1999, to remain available until expended.

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency, as authorized by the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, the United States International 
Broadcasting Act of 1994, as amended, and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977, to carry out international communication activities, $362,365,000, 
of which not to exceed $16,000 may be used for official receptions 
within the United States as authorized by section 804(3) of such Act of 
1948 (22 U.S.C. 1747(3)), not to exceed $35,000 may be used for 
representation abroad as authorized by section 302 of such Act of 1948 
(22 U.S.C. 1452) and section 905 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4085), and not to exceed $39,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/Radio 
Liberty; and in addition, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
not to exceed $2,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue from 
business ventures, not to exceed $500,000 in receipts from cooperating 
international organizations, and not to exceed $1,000,000 in receipts 
from privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available until expended for carrying out 
                          authorized purposes.

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to carry out the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, as amended, the 
Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and the International

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-100]]

Broadcasting Act of 1994, including the purchase, rent, construction, 
and improvement of facilities for radio and television transmission and 
reception, and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for 
radio and television transmission and reception, $22,095,000, to remain 
                        available until expended.

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of facilities 
for radio transmission and reception, and purchase and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio and television transmission and reception 
as authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1471), $13,245,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 704(a) of such 
                    Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1477b(a)).

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960 (22 U.S.C. 2054-
2057), by grant to the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange 
Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, $12,500,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary, or enter into any contract providing for the payment thereof, in 
             excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of
the North/South Center Act of 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2075), by grant to an 
educational institution in Florida known as the North/South Center, 
$1,750,000, to remain available until expended.

                    national endowment for democracy

    For grants made by the United States Information Agency to the 
National Endowment for Democracy as authorized by the National Endowment 
for Democracy Act, $31,000,000, to remain available until expended.

      General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agencies

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States Code; for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and hire of passenger transportation 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the United States Information Agency in this Act 
may be transferred between such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-101]]

appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any 
such transfers: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. (a) An employee who regularly commutes from his or her 
place of residence in the continental United States to an official duty 
station in Canada or Mexico shall receive a border equalization 
adjustment equal to the amount of comparability payments under section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, that he or she would receive if 
assigned to an official duty station within the United States locality 
pay area closest to the employee's official duty station.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``employee'' shall mean a 
person who--
            (1) is an ``employee'' as defined under section 2105 of 
        title 5, United States Code; and
            (2) is employed by the United States Department of State, 
        the United States Information Agency, the United States Agency 
        for International Development, or the International Joint 
        Commission, except that the term shall not include members of 
        the Foreign Service as defined by section 103 of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), section 3903 of title 
        22, United States Code.

    (c) An equalization adjustment payable under this section shall be 
considered basic pay for the same purposes as are comparability payments 
under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and its implementing 
regulations.
    (d) The agencies referenced in subsection (c)(2) are authorized to 
promulgate regulations to carry out the purposes of this section.
    Sec. 404. (a) Section 6(4) of the Japan-United States Friendship Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2905(4)) is amended by striking ``needed, except'' and all 
that follows through ``United States'' and inserting ``needed''.
    (b) The second sentence of section 7(b) of the Japan-United States 
Friendship Act (22 U.S.C. 2906(b)) is amended to read as follows: ``Such 
investment may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the 
United States, in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and 
interest by the United States, in interest-bearing obligations of Japan, 
or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by 
Japan.''.

    Sec. 405. The Director of the United States Information Agency is 
authorized to administer summer travel and work programs without regard 
to preplacement requirements.
    Sec. 406. Section 12 of the International Organizations Immunities 
Act (22 U.S.C. 288f-2) is amended by inserting ``and the United Nations 
Industrial Development Organization'' after ``International Labor 
Organization''.
    Sec. 407. (a) Section 5545a of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k)(1) For purposes of this section, the term `criminal 
investigator' includes a special agent occupying a position under title 
II of Public Law 99-399 if such special agent--
            ``(A) meets the definition of such term under paragraph (2) 
        of subsection (a) (applied disregarding the parenthetical matter 
        before subparagraph (A) thereof); and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-102]]

            ``(B) such special agent satisfies the requirements of 
        subsection (d) without taking into account any hours described 
        in paragraph (2)(B) thereof.

    ``(2) In applying subsection (h) with respect to a special agent 
under this subsection--
            ``(A) any reference in such subsection to `basic pay' shall 
        be considered to include amounts designated as `salary';
            ``(B) paragraph (2)(A) of such subsection shall be 
        considered to include (in addition to the provisions of law 
        specified therein) sections 609(b)(1), 805, 806, and 856 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980; and
            ``(C) paragraph (2)(B) of such subsection shall be applied 
        by substituting for `Office of Personnel Management' the 
        following: `Office of Personnel Management or the Secretary of 
        State (to the extent that matters exclusively within the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary are concerned)'.''.

    (b) Not later than the date on which the amendments made by this 
section take effect, each special agent of the Diplomatic Security 
Service who satisfies the requirements of subsection (k)(1) of section 
5545a of title 5, United States Code, as amended by this section, and 
the appropriate supervisory officer, to be designated by the Secretary 
of State, shall make an initial certification to the Secretary of State 
that the special agent is expected to meet the requirements of 
subsection (d) of such section 5545a. The Secretary of State may 
prescribe procedures necessary to administer this subsection.

    (c)(1) Paragraph (2) of section 5545a(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended (in the matter before subparagraph (A)) by striking 
``Public Law 99-399)'' and inserting ``Public Law 99-399, subject to 
subsection (k))''.
    (2) Section 5542(e) of such title is amended by striking ``title 18, 
United States Code,'' and inserting ``title 18 or section 37(a)(3) of 
the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956,''.
     <<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 5542 note.>> (d) The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first 
applicable pay period--
            (1) which begins on or after the 90th day following the date 
        of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) on which date all regulations necessary to carry out 
        such amendments are (in the judgment of the Director of the 
        Office of Personnel Management and the Secretary of State) in 
        effect.

    Sec. 408. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Department of State or the United States Information Agency to 
provide equipment, technical support, consulting services, or any other 
form of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
    Sec. <<NOTE: 28 USC 2669-1.>> 409. During the current fiscal year 
and hereafter, the Secretary of State shall have discretionary authority 
to pay tort claims in the manner authorized by section 2672 of title 28, 
United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries in 
connection with the overseas operations of the Department of State.

    Sec. 410. (a)(1)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and 
subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary of State and the Attorney 
General shall impose, for the processing of any application for the 
issuance of a machine readable combined border crossing card and 
nonimmigrant visa under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, a fee of $13 (for recovery of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-103]]

the costs of manufacturing the combined card and visa) in the case of 
any alien under 15 years of age where the application for the machine 
readable combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant visa is made in 
Mexico by a citizen of Mexico who has at least one parent or guardian 
who has a visa under such section or is applying for a machine readable 
combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant visa under such section 
as well.
    (B) The Secretary of State and the Attorney General may not commence 
implementation of the requirement in subparagraph (A) until the later 
of--
            (i) the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act; or
            (ii) the date on which the Secretary sets the amount of the 
        fee or surcharge in accordance with paragraph (3).

    (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), if the fee for a 
machine readable combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant visa 
issued under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act has been reduced under paragraph (1) for a child under 15 years of 
age, the machine readable combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant 
visa shall be issued to expire on the earlier of--
            (i) the date on which the child attains the age of 15; or
            (ii) ten years after its date of issue.

    (B) At the request of the parent or guardian of any alien under 15 
years of age otherwise covered by subparagraph (A), the Secretary of 
State and the Attorney General may charge the non-reduced fee for the 
processing of an application for the issuance of a machine readable 
combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant visa under section 
101(a)(15)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act provided that the 
machine readable combined border crossing card and nonimmigrant visa is 
issued to expire as of the same date as is usually provided for visas 
issued under that section.
    (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
State shall set the amount of the fee or surcharge authorized pursuant 
to section 140(a) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note) for the 
processing of machine readable nonimmigrant visas and machine readable 
combined border crossing cards and nonimmigrant visas at a level that 
will ensure the full recovery by the Department of State of the costs of 
processing such machine readable nonimmigrant visas and machine readable 
combined border crossing cards and nonimmigrant visas, including the 
costs of processing the machine readable combined border crossing cards 
and nonimmigrant visas for which the fee is reduced pursuant to this 
subsection.
    (b) The Secretary of State shall continue, until the date that is 5 
years after the date of the enactment of the Illegal Immigration Reform 
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note et seq.), 
to process applications for visas under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act at the following cities in Mexico 
located near the international border with the United States: Nogales, 
Nuevo Laredo, Ciudad Acuna, Piedras Negras, Agua Prieta, and Reynosa.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-104]]

    (c) Section 104(b)(2) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and 
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended by 
striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``5 years''.
    Sec. 411. Funds appropriated by this Act for the United States 
Information Agency, the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the 
Department of State may be obligated and expended notwithstanding 
section 701 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948 and section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, section 53 of the Arms Control and 
Disarmament Act, and section 15 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                        TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration

                        maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag merchant 
fleet to serve the national security needs of the United States, 
$89,650,000, to remain available until expended.

                         operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
                     authorized by law, $69,303,000.

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act, 1936, $6,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,000,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, not to exceed $3,725,000, which shall be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for Operations and Training.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefore shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year from 
the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-105]]

Act, 1936, or otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations 
contained in this Act or in any prior appropriation Act, and all 
receipts which otherwise would be deposited to the credit of said fund 
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $265,000, as authorized by section 1303 of Public Law 
99-83.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $8,900,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ 
in excess of 4 full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted 
Service exclusive of 1 special assistant for each Commissioner: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with the 
exception of the chairperson who is permitted 125 billable days.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation In Europe

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,170,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public Law 99-7.

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); non-monetary awards to 
private citizens; and not to exceed $29,000,000 for payments to State 
and local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant 
to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 and 
14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
$279,000,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-106]]

                    Federal Communications Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-02; not to exceed $600,000 for land and 
structure; not to exceed $500,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed 16) and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $192,000,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000, for research and policy studies: 
Provided, That $172,523,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act 
of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
1999 so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation estimated 
at $19,477,000: Provided further, That any offsetting collections 
received in excess of $172,523,000 in fiscal year 1999 shall remain 
available until expended, but shall not be available for obligation 
until October 1, 1999.

                       Federal Maritime Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-02, $14,150,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $86,679,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$300,000 shall be available for use to contract with a person or persons 
for collection services in accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718, 
as amended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $76,500,000 of offsetting collections derived from 
fees collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced as such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-107]]

offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 1999, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation from the General Fund 
estimated at not more than $10,179,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the 
Federal Trade Commission shall be available for obligation for expenses 
authorized by section 151 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2282-2285).

                       Legal Services Corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$300,000,000, of which $289,000,000 is for basic field programs and 
required independent audits; $2,015,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to 
conduct additional audits of recipients; and $8,985,000 is for 
management and administration.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 1998 and 1999, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,240,000.

                       Commission on Ocean Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Ocean Policy, 
$3,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the funds 
provided in this Act for the Commission on Ocean Policy shall become 
available only upon the enactment of authorizing legislation.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-108]]

reception and representation expenses, $23,000,000; and, in addition, to 
remain available until expended, from fees collected in fiscal year 
1998, $87,000,000, and from fees collected in fiscal year 1999, 
$214,000,000; of which not to exceed $10,000 may be used toward funding 
a permanent secretariat for the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions; and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for 
expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members of their 
delegations, appropriate representatives and staff to exchange views 
concerning developments relating to securities matters, development and 
implementation of cooperation agreements concerning securities matters 
and provision of technical assistance for the development of foreign 
securities markets, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and foreign 
invitees in attendance at such consultations and meetings including: (1) 
such incidental expenses as meals taken in the course of such 
attendance; (2) any travel and transportation to or from such meetings; 
and (3) any other related lodging or subsistence: Provided, That fees 
and charges authorized by sections 6(b)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(15 U.S.C. 77f(b)(4)) and 31(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78ee(d)) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections.

                      Small Business Administration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 103-403, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $288,300,000, of which: $3,500,000 shall be available for a 
grant to the NTTC at Wheeling Jesuit University to continue the outreach 
program to assist small business development; $4,000,000 shall be 
available for a grant for Western Carolina University to develop a 
facility to assist in small business and rural economic development; 
$2,000,000 shall be available for a grant for the City of Hazard, 
Kentucky for a Center for Rural Law Enforcement Technology and Training; 
$1,500,000 shall be available for a grant to the State University of New 
York to develop a facility and operate the Institute of Entrepreneurship 
for small business and workforce development; $1,500,000 shall be 
available for a grant for Pikeville College for a telemedicine learning 
and resource center; $1,000,000 shall be available for a grant for the 
Center for Excellence in Marine Science Education at Southampton 
College; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to King's College in Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, for the commercialization of pulverization 
technologies; $850,000 shall be available for a grant for the Carbondale 
Technology Transfer Center in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania; 
$1,000,000 shall be available for a grant for the Institute for Software 
Research in Fairmont, West Virginia, for Institute operations and to 
further develop their capability to perform basic and applied research 
aimed at software engineering, biometrics, image processing and 
networks; $500,000 shall be available for a grant for the Altoona 
Science and Technology Research Academy in Altoona, Pennsylvania; 
$200,000 shall be available for a grant to the City of Prestonburg, 
Kentucky for a regional

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-109]]

arts and tourism center; $300,000 shall be available for a grant for the 
City of Parkersburg, West Virginia for infrastructure improvements, 
facility upgrades, and property acquisition associated with community 
non-profit service and enrichment projects; $200,000 shall be available 
for a grant for the Vandalia Heritage Foundation to fulfill its charter 
purposes; $1,000,000 shall be available for a grant for the Moundsville 
Economic Development Council to work in conjunction with the Office of 
Law Enforcement Technology Commercialization for the establishment of 
the National Corrections and Law Enforcement Training and Technology 
Center, and for infrastructure improvements associated with this 
initiative; and $250,000 shall be available for a grant for
the Johnstown Area Regional Industries Defense Procurement Center to 
establish a Year 2000 challenge grant program to assist small businesses 
that rely heavily on the Federal Government's acquisition system for 
their livelihood, and help provide a solution to the Year 2000 computer 
problem: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge fees 
to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small Business 
Administration, and certain loan servicing activities: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from all such 
activities shall be credited to this account, to be available for 
carrying out these purposes without further appropriations: Provided 
further, That $82,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for 
performance in fiscal year 1999 or fiscal year 2000 as authorized by 
section 21 of the Small Business Act, as amended.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $10,800,000.

                     business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,200,000, to be available until 
expended; and for the cost of guaranteed loans, $128,030,000, as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note, of which $45,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
of the funds previously made available under Public Law 105-135, section 
507(g), for the Delta Loan program, up to $20,000,000 may be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriations for salaries and expenses: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 1999, commitments to guarantee 
loans under section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as 
amended, shall not exceed the amount of financings authorized under 
section 20(d)(1)(B)(ii) of the Small Business Act, as amended: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 1999, commitments for general business 
loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $10,000,000,000 without prior notification of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.
     In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $94,000,000, which may be

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-110]]

transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, as amended, $76,329,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $116,000,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses, including $500,000 for the 
Office of Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for 
audits and reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan program, and 
said sums shall be transferred to and merged with appropriations for the 
                      Office of Inspector General.

    For additional capital for the ``Surety Bond Guarantees Revolving 
Fund'', authorized by the Small Business Investment Act, as amended, 
$3,300,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation as 
                    authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note.

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Small Business Administration in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         State Justice Institute

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 
102-572 (106 Stat. 4515-4516)), $6,850,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-111]]

for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, 
or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States 
derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by 
this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a 
program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
means for any project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes 
offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any 
functions, or activities presently performed by Federal employees; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
     (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for 
any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 
10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 606. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul, 
conversion, or modernization
 of vessels for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in 
shipyards located outside of the United States.

    Sec. 607. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-112]]

inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to 
the United States that is not made in the United States, the person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with 
funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, 
and ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 
of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on religion, 
when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to which such 
funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ in any 
respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission on 
October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 609. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be obligated or expended to pay for any cost incurred 
for: (1) opening or operating any United States diplomatic or consular 
post in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam that was not operating on July 
11, 1995; (2) expanding any United States diplomatic or consular post in 
the Socialist Republic of Vietnam that was operating on July 11, 1995; 
or (3) increasing the total number of personnel assigned to United 
States diplomatic or consular posts in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
above the levels existing on July 11, 1995; unless the President 
certifies within 60 days the following:
            (A) Based upon all information available to the United 
        States Government, the Government of the Socialist Republic of 
        Vietnam is fully cooperating in good faith with the United 
        States in the following:
                    (i) Resolving discrepancy cases, live sightings, and 
                field activities.
                    (ii) Recovering and repatriating American remains.
                    (iii) Accelerating efforts to provide documents that 
                will help lead to fullest possible accounting of 
                prisoners of war and missing in action.
                    (iv) Providing further assistance in implementing 
                trilateral investigations with Laos.
            (B) The remains, artifacts, eyewitness accounts, archival 
        material, and other evidence associated with prisoners of war 
        and missing in action recovered from crash sites, military 
        actions, and other locations in Southeast Asia are being 
        thoroughly analyzed by the appropriate laboratories with the 
        intent of providing surviving relatives with scientifically 
        defensible, legal determinations of death or other 
        accountability that are fully documented and available in 
        unclassified and unredacted form to immediate family members.

    Sec. 610. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for any United Nations undertaking when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds: (1) that the 
United Nations undertaking is a peacekeeping mission; (2) that such 
undertaking will involve United States Armed Forces under the command or 
operational control of a foreign national; and (3) that the President's 
military advisors have not submitted to the President a recommendation 
that such involvement is in the national security interests of the 
United States and the President has not submitted to the Congress such a 
recommendation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-113]]

    Sec. 611. None of the funds made available in this Act shall be used 
to provide the following amenities or personal comforts in the Federal 
prison system--
            (1) in-cell television viewing except for prisoners who are 
        segregated from the general prison population for their own 
        safety;
            (2) the viewing of R, X, and NC-17 rated movies, through 
        whatever medium presented;
            (3) any instruction (live or through broadcasts) or training 
        equipment for boxing, wrestling, judo, karate, or other martial 
        art, or any bodybuilding or weightlifting equipment of any sort;
            (4) possession of in-cell coffee pots, hot plates or heating 
        elements; or
            (5) the use or possession of any electric or electronic 
        musical instrument.

    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available in title II for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) under the 
headings ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' and ``Procurement, 
Acquisition and Construction'' may be used to implement sections 603, 
604, and 605 of Public Law 102-567: Provided, That NOAA may develop a 
modernization plan for its fisheries research vessels that takes fully 
into account opportunities for contracting for fisheries surveys.
    Sec. 613. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to 
authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use 
of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 614. None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons may be used to distribute or make available 
any commercially published information or material to a prisoner when it 
is made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that such information or material is sexually explicit 
or features nudity.
    Sec. 615. Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', not more than 90 percent of the amount to be awarded to an 
entity under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant shall be made 
available to such an entity when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that the 
entity that employs a public safety officer (as such term is defined in 
section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968) does not provide such a public safety officer who retires 
or is separated from service due to injury suffered as the direct and 
proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty 
while responding to an emergency situation or a hot pursuit (as such 
terms are defined by State law) with the same or better level of health

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-114]]

insurance benefits at the time of retirement or separation as they 
received while on duty.
    Sec. 616. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act shall be used to issue visas to any person who--
            (1) has been credibly alleged to have ordered, carried out, 
        or materially assisted in the extrajudicial and political 
        killings of Antoine Izmery, Guy Malary, Father Jean-Marie 
        Vincent, Pastor Antoine Leroy, Jacques Fleurival, Mireille 
        Durocher Bertin, Eugene Baillergeau, Michelange Hermann, Max 
        Mayard, Romulus Dumarsais, Claude Yves Marie, Mario Beaubrun, 
        Leslie Grimar, Joseph Chilove, Michel Gonzalez, and Jean-Hubert 
        Feuille;
            (2) has been included in the list presented to former 
        President Jean-Bertrand Aristide by former National Security 
        Council Advisor Anthony Lake in December 1995, and acted upon by 
        President Rene Preval;
            (3) was sought for an interview by the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation as part of its inquiry into the March 28, 1995, 
        murder of Mireille Durocher Bertin and Eugene Baillergeau, Jr., 
        and was credibly alleged to have ordered, carried out, or 
        materially assisted in those murders, per a June 28, 1995, 
        letter to the then Minister of Justice of the Government of 
        Haiti, Jean-Joseph Exume;
            (4) was a member of the Haitian High Command during the 
        period 1991 through 1994, and has been credibly alleged to have 
        planned, ordered, or participated with members of the Haitian 
        Armed Forces in--
                    (A) the September 1991 coup against any person who 
                was a duly elected government official of Haiti (or a 
                member of the family of such official), or
                    (B) the murders of thousands of Haitians during the 
                period 1991 through 1994; or
            (5) has been credibly alleged to have been a member of the 
        paramilitary organization known as FRAPH who planned, ordered, 
        or participated in acts of violence against the Haitian people.

    (b) Exemption.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
State finds, on a case-by-case basis, that the entry into the United 
States of a person who would otherwise be excluded under this section is 
necessary for medical reasons or such person has cooperated fully with 
the investigation of these political murders. If the Secretary of State 
exempts any such person, the Secretary shall notify the appropriate 
congressional committees in writing.
    (c) Reporting Requirement.--(1) The United States chief of mission 
in Haiti shall provide the Secretary of State a list of those who have 
been credibly alleged to have ordered or carried out the extrajudicial 
and political killings mentioned in paragraph (1) of subsection (a).
    (2) The Secretary of State shall submit the list provided under 
paragraph (1) to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 
3 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (3) The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a list of aliens denied visas, and the Attorney 
General shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list 
of aliens refused entry to the United States as a result of this 
provision.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-115]]

    (4) The Secretary of State shall submit a report under this 
subsection not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this 
Act and not later than March 1 of each year thereafter as long as the 
Government of Haiti has not completed the investigation of the 
extrajudicial and political killings and has not prosecuted those 
implicated for the killings specified in paragraph (1) of subsection 
(a).
    (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means the Committee on International 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee 
on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to issue or renew a fishing permit or authorization for any fishing 
vessel of the United States greater than 165 feet in registered length 
or of more than 750 gross registered tons, and that has an engine or 
engines capable of producing a total of more than 3,000 shaft 
horsepower--
            (1) as specified in the permit application required under 
        part 648.4(a)(5) of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, part 
        648.12 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, and the 
        authorization required under part 648.80(d)(2) of title 50, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, to engage in fishing for Atlantic 
        mackerel or herring (or both) under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
        Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.); or
            (2) that would allow such a vessel to engage in the 
        catching, taking, or harvesting of fish in any other fishery 
        within the exclusive economic zone of the United States (except 
        territories), unless a certificate of documentation had been 
        issued for the vessel and endorsed with a fishery endorsement 
        that
was effective on September 25, 1997, and such fishery endorsement was 
not surrendered at any time thereafter.

     (b) Any fishing permit or authorization issued or renewed prior to 
the date of the enactment of this Act for a fishing vessel to which the 
prohibition in subsection (a)(1) applies that would allow such vessel to 
engage in fishing for Atlantic mackerel or herring (or both) during 
fiscal year 1999 shall be null and void, and none of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to issue a fishing permit or 
authorization that would allow a vessel whose permit or authorization 
was made null and void pursuant to this subsection to engage in the 
catching, taking, or harvesting of fish in any other fishery within the 
exclusive economic zone of the United States.
    Sec. 618. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be available 
to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek 
the reduction or removal by any foreign country of restrictions on the 
marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except for restrictions which 
are not applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same 
type.
    Sec. 619. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the expenses of an election officer appointed by a court to 
oversee an election of any officer or trustee for the International 
Brotherhood of Teamsters.
    Sec. 620. Section 1303 of the International Security and Development 
Corporation Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 469j) is amended in subsection (e), 
by striking ``three'' and inserting ``six''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-116]]

    Sec. 621. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this Act or any 
other provision of law may be used for (1) the implementation of any tax 
or fee in connection with the implementation of 18 U.S.C. 922(t); (2) 
any system to implement 18 U.S.C. 922(t) that does not require and 
result in the destruction of any identifying information submitted by or 
on behalf of any person who has been determined not to be prohibited 
from owning a firearm.
    Sec. 622. Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the United States Trade Representative (in this section referred to 
as the ``Trade Representative'') shall report to Congress on the Trade 
Representative's analysis regarding--
            (1) whether the Korean Government provided subsidies to 
        Hanbo Steel;
            (2) whether such subsidies had an adverse effect on United 
        States companies;
            (3) the status of the Trade Representative's contacts with 
        the Korean Government with respect to industry concerns 
        regarding Hanbo Steel and efforts to eliminate subsidies; and
            (4) the status of the Trade Representative's contacts with 
        other Asian trading partners regarding the adverse effect of 
        Korean steel subsidies on such trading partners.

    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall also include 
information on the status of any investigations initiated as a result of 
press reports that the Korean Government ordered Pohang Iron and Steel 
Company, in which the Government owns a controlling interest, to sell 
steel in Korea at a price that is 30 percent lower than the 
international market prices.
    Sec. 623. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be used to implement, administer, or enforce Executive Order No. 
13083 (titled ``Federalism'' and dated May 14, 1998).
    Sec. 624. (a) Section 118 of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``Philadelphia, and 
        Schuylkill'' and inserting ``and Philadelphia''; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by inserting ``Schuylkill,'' after 
        ``Potter,''.

     <<NOTE: Effective date. 28 USC 118 note.>> (b)(1) This section and 
the amendments made by this section shall take effect 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

    (2) This section and the amendments made by this section shall not 
affect any action commenced before the effective date of this section 
and pending on such date in the United States District Court for the 
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
    (3) This section and the amendments made by this section shall not 
affect the composition, or preclude the service, of any grand or petit 
jury summoned, impaneled, or actually serving on the effective date of 
this section.
    Sec. 625. Beginning 60 days from the date of enactment of this Act, 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
may be made available for the participation by delegates of the United 
States to the Standing Consultative Commission unless the President 
certifies and so reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
United States Government is not implementing the Memorandum of 
Understanding Relating to the Treaty Between the United States of 
America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the limitation of 
Anti-Ballistic Missile

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-117]]

Systems of May 26, 1972, entered into in New York on September 26, 1997, 
by the United States, Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Ukraine, or until 
the Senate provides its advice and consent to the Memorandum of 
                             Understanding.

    Sec. 626. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this Act (the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999) shall cease to 
be available after June 15, 1999.
    (b) Appropriations and funds made available by or authority granted 
pursuant to the Act referenced in subsection (a) shall be apportioned 
under section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, in the manner 
established for funds provided by a joint resolution making continuing 
appropriations.
    (c) Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to the Act 
referenced in subsection (a) shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any program, project or activity during the period for 
which funds or authority for such project or activity are available 
under such Act.
    (d) Expenditures made during the period for which funds or authority 
are available under such Act shall be charged to the full-year amount 
provided for the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization.

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          working capital fund

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading on 
September 30, 1998, $99,000,000 are rescinded.

                            Legal Activities

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $2,000,000 
are rescinded.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

    Of the funds provided in previous Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``Construction, 1998'', $4,000,000;
            ``Salaries and Expenses, no year'', $6,400,000;
            ``Violent Crime Reduction Program, 1996'', $2,000,000; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-118]]

            ``Violent Crime Reduction Program, 1997'', $300,000.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $5,000,000 
are rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

    Of the funds provided in previous Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``United States Travel and Tourism Administration, no 
        year'', $915,000; and
            ``Endowment for Children's Educational TV, no year'', 
        $1,175,000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading for the 
Advanced Technology Program, $6,000,000 are rescinded.

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$17,000,000 are rescinded.

                               TITLE VIII

SEC. 801. ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL PROSECUTORS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 31 of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 530B. Ethical standards for attorneys for the Government

    ``(a) An attorney for the Government shall be subject to State laws 
and rules, and local Federal court rules, governing attorneys in each 
State where such attorney engages in that attorney's duties, to the same 
extent and in the same manner as other attorneys in that State.
    ``(b) The Attorney General shall make and amend rules of the 
Department of Justice to assure compliance with this section.
    ``(c) As used in this section, the term `attorney for the 
Government' includes any attorney described in section 77.2(a) of part

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-119]]

77 of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations and also includes any 
independent counsel, or employee of such a counsel, appointed under 
chapter 40.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 31 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new item:

``530B.  Ethical standards for attorneys for the Government.''.

     <<NOTE: 28 USC 530B note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and shall apply during that portion of fiscal year 
1999 that follows that taking effect, and in each succeeding fiscal 
year.

   <<NOTE: National Whale Conservation Fund Act of 1998. 16 USC 3701 
note. 16 USC 3703 note.>> TITLE IX NATIONAL WHALE CONSERVATION FUND ACT

    Sec. 901. Short Title. This title may be cited as the ``National 
Whale Conservation Fund Act of 1998''.
    Sec. 902. Findings. Congress finds that--
            (1) the populations of whales that occur in waters of the 
        United States are resources of substantial ecological, 
        scientific, socioeconomic, and esthetic value;
            (2) whale populations--
                    (A) form a significant component of marine 
                ecosystems;
                    (B) are the subject of intense research;
                    (C) provide for a multimillion dollar whale watching 
                tourist industry that provides the public an opportunity 
                to enjoy and learn about great whales and the ecosystems 
                of which the whales are a part; and
                    (D) are of importance to Native Americans for 
                cultural and subsistence purposes;
            (3) whale populations are in various stages of recovery, and 
        some whale populations, such as the northern right whale 
        (Eubaleana glacialis) remain perilously close to extinction;
            (4) the interactions that occur between ship traffic, 
        commercial fishing, whale watching vessels, and other 
        recreational vessels and whale populations may affect whale 
        populations adversely;
            (5) the exploration and development of oil, gas, and hard 
        mineral resources, marine debris, chemical pollutants, noise, 
        and other anthropogenic sources of change in the habitat of 
        whales may affect whale populations adversely;
            (6) the conservation of whale populations is subject to 
        difficult challenges related to--
                    (A) the migration of whale populations across 
                international boundaries;
                    (B) the size of individual whales, as that size 
                precludes certain conservation research procedures that 
                may be used for other animal species, such as captive 
                research and breeding;
                    (C) the low reproductive rates of whales that 
                require long-term conservation programs to ensure 
                recovery of whale populations; and
                    (D) the occurrence of whale populations in offshore 
                waters where undertaking research, monitoring, and 
                conservation measures is difficult and costly;
            (7)(A) the Secretary of Commerce, through the Administrator 
        of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-120]]

        has research and regulatory responsibility for the conservation 
        of whales under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
        U.S.C. 1361 et seq.); and
            (B) the heads of other Federal agencies and the Marine 
        Mammal Commission established under section 201 of the Marine 
        Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1401) have related 
        research and management activities under the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act of 1972 or the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
        U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
            (8) the funding available for the activities described in 
        paragraph (8) is insufficient to support all necessary whale 
        conservation and recovery activities; and
            (9) there is a need to facilitate the use of funds from non-
        Federal sources to carry out the conservation of whales.

    Sec. 903. National Whale Conservation Fund. Section 4 of the 
National Fish and Wildlife Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3703) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f)(1) In carrying out the purposes under section 2(b), the 
Foundation may establish a national whale conservation endowment fund, 
to be used by the Foundation to support research, management activities, 
or educational programs that contribute to the protection, conservation, 
or recovery of whale populations in waters of the United States.
    ``(2)(A) In a manner consistent with subsection (c)(1), the 
Foundation may--
            ``(i) accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use 
        any gift, devise, or bequest made to the Foundation for the 
        express purpose of supporting whale conservation; and
            ``(ii) deposit in the endowment fund under paragraph (1) any 
        funds made available to the Foundation under this subparagraph, 
        including any income or interest earned from a gift, devise, or 
        bequest received by the Foundation under this subparagraph.

    ``(B) To raise funds to be deposited in the endowment fund under 
paragraph (1), the Foundation may enter into appropriate arrangements to 
provide for the design, copyright, production, marketing, or licensing, 
of logos, seals, decals, stamps, or any other item that the Foundation 
determines to be appropriate.
    ``(C)(i) The Secretary of Commerce may transfer to the Foundation 
for deposit in the endowment fund under paragraph (1) any amount (or 
portion thereof) received by the Secretary under section 105(a)(1) of 
the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1375(a)(1)) as a 
civil penalty assessed by the Secretary under that section.
    ``(ii) The Directors of the Board shall ensure that any amounts 
transferred to the Foundation under clause (i)
for the endowment fund under paragraph (1) are deposited in that fund in 
accordance with this subparagraph.

    ``(3) It is the intent of Congress that in making expenditures from 
the endowment fund under paragraph (1) to carry out activities specified 
in that paragraph, the Foundation should give priority to funding 
projects that address the conservation of populations of whales that the 
Foundation determines--
            ``(A) are the most endangered (including the northern right 
        whale (Eubaleana glacialis)); or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-121]]

            ``(B) most warrant, and are most likely to benefit from, 
        research management, or educational activities that may be 
        funded with amounts made available from the fund.

    ``(g) In carrying out any action on the part of the Foundation under 
subsection (f), the Directors of the Board shall consult with the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and 
the Marine Mammal Commission.''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.
    (c) For programs, projects or activities in the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as follows, to be effective as if it 
had been enacted into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                              FEDERAL FUNDS

                  Metrorail Improvements and Expansion

    For a Federal contribution to the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority for improvements and expansion of the Mount Vernon 
Square Metrorail station located at the site of the proposed Washington 
Convention Center project, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  Federal Payment for Management Reform

    For payment to the District of Columbia, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999, which shall be deposited into an 
escrow account of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority and shall be disbursed from such escrow 
account by the Authority pursuant to the instructions of the Authority 
only for a program of management reform pursuant to sections 11101-11106 
of the District of Columbia Management Reform Act of 1997, Public Law 
105-33.

   Federal Payment for Boys Town U.S.A. Operations in the District of 
                                Columbia

    For a Federal contribution of $7,100,000 to be paid to the Board of 
Trustees of Boys Town U.S.A. for expansion of the operations of Boys 
Town of Washington, located at 4801 Sargent Road, Northeast, said funds 
to be allocated as follows: $4,700,000 in capital costs for the 
construction of one emergency short-term residential center and four 
long-term residential homes in the District of Columbia; and $2,400,000 
in first-year operating expenses for said facilities: Provided, That 
said Board of Trustees shall provide quarterly financial reports during 
fiscal year 1999 on the expenditure of said funds to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight of the House of Representatives.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-122]]

                  Nation's Capital Infrastructure Fund

    For a Federal contribution to the District of Columbia towards the 
costs of infrastructure needs, which shall be deposited into an escrow 
account of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority and disbursed by the Authority from such 
account for the repair and maintenance of public safety facilities in 
the District of Columbia, $18,778,000, to remain available until 
expended.

   Environmental Study and Related Activities at Lorton Correctional 
                                 Complex

    For a Federal contribution for an environmental study and related 
activities at the property on which the Lorton Correctional Complex is 
located, to be transferred to the Federal agency with authority over the 
Complex, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee, 
$184,800,000 for the administration and operation of correctional 
facilities and for the administrative operating costs of the Office of 
the Corrections Trustee, as authorized by section 11202 of the National 
Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
Public Law 105-33; of which $177,385,000 shall be available for expenses 
incurred in connection with the housing, in both private, District of 
Columbia and Federal facilities, of the sentenced adult felon population 
of the District of Columbia; $4,225,000 shall be available for personnel 
initiatives in the District of Columbia Department of Corrections; 
$750,000 shall be available for a system of internal controls and audits 
within the Department of Corrections; and $2,440,000 shall be available 
for administrative expenses: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and consistent with regulations and guidance governing 
the use of Federal funds by grantees, funds appropriated in this Act for 
the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee shall be transferred by the
Secretary of the Treasury to said Trustee only as funds are needed to 
pay properly incurred obligations.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $128,000,000 for payment 
to the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of 
Columbia; of which not to exceed $121,000,000 shall be for District of 
Columbia Courts operation, to be allocated as follows: for the District 
of Columbia Court of Appeals, $7,839,000 and 96 full-time equivalent 
(FTE) positions; for the District of Columbia Superior Court, 
$72,419,000 and 1,017 FTE's; for the District of Columbia court system, 
$40,742,000 and 120 FTE's; and $7,000,000 shall be for capital 
improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities: Provided, 
That of amounts available for District of Columbia Courts operation, not 
to exceed $6,900,000 shall be for the Counsel for Child Abuse and 
Neglect program pursuant to section 1101 of title 11, D.C. Code, and 
section 2304 of title 16, D.C. Code, and of which not to exceed 
$25,036,000

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-123]]

shall be to carry out sections 2602 and 2604 of title 11, D.C. Code, 
relating to representation of indigents in criminal cases under the 
Criminal Justice Act, in total, $31,936,000: Provided further, That 
subject to normal reprogramming requirements contained in section 116 of 
this Act, this $31,936,000 may be used for other purposes under this 
heading: Provided further, That all amounts under this heading shall be 
paid quarterly by the Treasury of the United States based on quarterly 
apportionments approved by the Office of Management and Budget, with 
payroll and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis 
with the General Services Administration [GSA], said services to include 
the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which shall be 
submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight of the House of Representatives.

   Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Offender Supervision, 
                   Defender, and Court Services Agency

    For payment to the District of Columbia Offender Supervision, 
Defender, and Court Services Agency, $59,400,000, as authorized by the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997, Public Law 105-33; of which $33,802,000 shall be for necessary 
expenses of Parole Revocation, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision, 
to include expenses relating to supervision of adults subject to 
protection orders or provision of services for or related to such 
persons; $14,486,000 shall be available to the Public Defender Service; 
and $11,112,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
consistent with regulations and guidance governing the use of Federal 
funds by grantees, funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia Offender Trustee shall be transferred by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to said Trustee only as funds are needed to pay properly 
incurred obligations.

           Federal Payment for Metropolitan Police Department

    For payment to the Metropolitan Police Department, $1,200,000, for 
the administration and operating costs of the Citizen Complaint Review 
Office.

                   Federal Payment for Fire Department

    For payment to the Fire Department, $3,240,000, for a 5.5 percent 
pay increase to be effective and paid to firefighters beginning October 
1, 1998.

         Federal Payment to the Georgetown Waterfront Park Fund

    For payment to the Georgetown Waterfront Park Fund, $1,000,000 for 
the construction and landscaping of Georgetown Waterfront Park, property 
described on the District of Columbia Surveyor's Plat Number S.O. 84-
230: Provided, That the Georgetown Waterfront Park Fund provide an 
amount equal to one dollar

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-124]]

for every dollar expended, in cash or in kind, to carry out the 
activities supported by the grant.

          Federal Payment to Historical Society for City Museum

    For a Federal payment to the Historical Society of Washington, D.C., 
for the establishment and operation of a Museum of the City of 
Washington, D.C. at the Carnegie Library at Mount Vernon Square, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be deposited in a 
separate account of the Society used exclusively for the establishment 
and operation of such Museum: Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall make such payment in quarterly installments, and the 
amount of the installment for a quarter shall be equal to the amount of 
matching funds that the Society has deposited into such account for the 
quarter (as certified by the Inspector General of the District of 
Columbia): Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, not later than January 1, 1999, the District of Columbia shall 
enter into an agreement with the Society under which the District of 
Columbia shall lease the Carnegie Library at Mount Vernon Square to the 
Society beginning on such date for 99 years at a rent of $1 per year for 
use as a city museum.

Federal Payment for a National Museum of American Music and for Downtown 
                             Revitalization

    For a Federal contribution to the District of Columbia to establish 
a National Museum of American Music and for downtown revitalization, 
$700,000 which shall be deposited into an escrow account held by the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, to remain available until expended: Provided, That $300,000 
shall be available from this appropriation for the Federal City Council 
to conduct a needs and design study for a National Museum of American 
Music: Provided further, That $300,000 shall be available from this 
appropriation for the Washington Center Alliance to further and promote 
the objectives of the Interactive Downtown Task Force: Provided further, 
That $100,000 shall be paid to Save New York Avenue, Inc., for the 
further improvement of that portion of New York Avenue designated as the 
Capital Gateway Corridor.

                        United States Park Police

    For a Federal payment to the United States Park Police, $8,500,000, 
to acquire, modify and operate a helicopter and to make necessary 
capital expenditures to the Park Police aviation unit base: Provided, 
That the Chief of the United States Park Police shall provide quarterly 
financial reports during fiscal year 1999 on the expenditure of said 
funds to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
Representatives.

               Federal Payment for Waterfront Improvements

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Department of 
Housing and Community Development for a study in consultation

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-125]]

with the United States Army Corps of Engineers of necessary improvements 
to the Southwest Waterfront in the District of Columbia (including 
upgrading marina dock pilings and paving and restoring walkways in the 
marina and fish market areas) for the portions of Federal property in 
the Southwest quadrant of the District of Columbia within Lots 847 and 
848, a portion of Lot 846, and the unassessed Federal real property 
adjacent to Lot 848 in Square 473, and for carrying out the improvements 
recommended by the study, $3,000,000: Provided, That no portion of such 
funds shall be available to the District of Columbia unless the District 
of Columbia executes a 30-year lease with the existing lessees, or with 
their successors in interest, of such portions of property not later 
than 30 days after the existing lessees or their successors in interest 
have submitted to the District of Columbia acceptable plans for 
improvements and private financing: Provided further, That the District 
of Columbia shall report its progress on this project on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.

                 Federal Payment for Mentoring Services

    For a Federal payment to the International Youth Service and 
Development Corps, Inc. for a mentoring program for at-risk children in 
the District of Columbia, $200,000: Provided, That the International 
Youth Service and Development Corps, Inc. shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate an 
annual report due November 30, 1999, on the activities carried out with 
such funds.

                  Federal Payment for Hotline Services

    For a Federal payment to the International Youth Service and 
Development Corps, Inc. for the operation of a resource hotline for low-
income individuals in the District of Columbia, $50,000: Provided, That 
the International Youth Service and Development Corps, Inc. shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate an annual report due November 30, 1999, on the activities 
carried out with such funds.

                  Federal Payment for Public Education

    For a Federal contribution to the public education system for public 
charter schools, $15,622,000.

 Federal Payment for Medicare Coordinated Care Demonstration Project in 
                        the District of Columbia

    For payment to the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, $3,000,000 for the continued funding of 
a Medicare Coordinated Care Demonstration Project in the District of 
Columbia as specified in section 4016(b)(2)(C) of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997.

         Federal Payment for Children's National Medical Center

    For a Federal contribution to the Children's National Medical Center 
in the District of Columbia, $1,000,000 for construction,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-126]]

renovation, and information technology infrastructure costs associated 
with establishing community pediatric health clinics for high risk 
children in medically underserved areas of the District of Columbia.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $164,144,000 (including 
$136,485,000 from local funds, $13,955,000 from Federal funds, and 
$13,704,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the Chief Management Officer shall be available 
from this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That 
any program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available 
for the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the 
District of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal 
sources shall be used to support the operations or activities of the 
Statehood Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, 
That the District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for 
Admission to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: Provided 
further, That all employees permanently assigned to work in the Office 
of the Mayor shall be paid from funds allocated to the Office of the 
Mayor.

                   Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $159,039,000 (including 
$45,162,000 from local funds, $83,365,000 from Federal funds, and 
$30,512,000 from other funds), of which $12,000,000 collected by the 
District of Columbia in the form of BID tax revenue shall be paid to the 
respective BIDs pursuant to the Business Improvement Districts Act of 
1996 (D.C. Law 11-134; D.C. Code, sec. 1-2271 et seq.), and the Business 
Improvement Districts Temporary Amendment Act of 1997 (D.C. Law 12-23): 
Provided, That such funds are available for acquiring services provided 
by the General Services Administration: Provided further, That Business 
Improvement Districts shall be exempt from taxes levied by the District 
of Columbia.

                        Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, including purchase or lease of 135 
passenger-carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for 
police-type use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, 
$755,786,000 (including $530,945,000 from local funds, $30,327,000 from 
Federal funds, and $194,514,000 from other funds): Provided,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-127]]

That the Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to replace not to 
exceed 25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Department of Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services of the District of Columbia is authorized to 
replace not to exceed five passenger-carrying vehicles annually whenever 
the cost of repair to any damaged vehicle exceeds
three-fourths of the cost of the replacement: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $500,000 shall be available from this appropriation for the 
Chief of Police for the prevention and detection of crime: Provided 
further, That the Metropolitan Police Department shall provide quarterly 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate on 
efforts to increase efficiency and improve the professionalism in the 
department: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, or Mayor's Order 86-45, issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan 
Police Department's delegated small purchase authority shall be 
$500,000: Provided further, That the District of Columbia government may 
not require the Metropolitan Police Department to submit to any other 
procurement review process, or to obtain the approval of or be 
restricted in any manner by any official or employee of the District of 
Columbia government, for purchases that do not exceed $500,000: Provided 
further, That the Mayor shall reimburse the District of Columbia 
National Guard for expenses incurred in connection with services that 
are performed in emergencies by the National Guard in a militia status 
and are requested by the Mayor, in amounts that shall be jointly 
determined and certified as due and payable for these services by the 
Mayor and the Commanding General of the District of Columbia National 
Guard: Provided further, That such sums as may be necessary for 
reimbursement to the District of Columbia National Guard under the 
preceding proviso shall be available from this appropriation, and the 
availability of the sums shall be deemed as constituting payment in 
advance for emergency services involved: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to maintain 3,800 sworn 
officers, with leave for a 50 officer attrition: Provided further, That 
no more than 15 members of the Metropolitan Police Department shall be 
detailed or assigned to the Executive Protection Unit, until the Chief 
of Police submits a recommendation to the Council for its review: 
Provided further, That $100,000 shall be available for inmates released 
on medical and geriatric parole: Provided further, That commencing on 
December 31, 1998, the Metropolitan Police Department shall provide to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
Representatives, quarterly reports on the status of crime reduction in 
each of the 83 police service areas established throughout the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That funds appropriated for expenses 
under the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act, approved September 
3, 1974 (88 Stat. 1090; Public Law 93-412; D.C. Code, sec. 11-2601 et 
seq.), for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, shall be available 
for obligations incurred under the Act in each fiscal year since 
inception in the fiscal year 1975: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated for expenses under the District of Columbia Neglect 
Representation Equity Act of 1984, effective March 13, 1985 (D.C. Law 5-
129; D.C. Code, sec. 16-2304), for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1999, shall be available for obligations incurred under the Act in each 
fiscal year

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-128]]

since inception in the fiscal year 1985: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated for expenses under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986, 
effective February 27, 1987 (D.C. Law 6-204; D.C. Code, sec. 21-2060), 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, shall be available for 
obligations incurred under the Act in each fiscal year since inception 
in fiscal year 1989.

                         Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $788,956,000 (including $640,135,000 from 
local funds, $125,869,000 from Federal funds, and $22,952,000 from other 
funds), to be allocated as follows: $644,805,000 (including $545,000,000 
from local funds, $95,121,000 from Federal
funds, and $4,684,000 from other funds), for the public schools of the 
District of Columbia; $18,600,000 from local funds for the District of 
Columbia Teachers' Retirement Fund; $27,857,000 (including $12,235,000 
from local funds and $15,622,000 from Federal funds not including funds 
already made available for District of Columbia public schools) for 
public charter schools: Provided, That if the entirety of this 
allocation has not been provided as payments to any public charter 
schools currently in operation through the per pupil funding formula, 
the funds shall be available for new public charter schools on a per 
pupil basis: Provided further, That $480,000 of this amount shall be 
available to the District of Columbia Public Charter School Board for 
administrative costs: Provided further, That the Emergency Transitional 
Education Board of Trustees shall report to Congress not later than 
February 1, 1999, on the implementation of their policy to give 
preference to newly created District of Columbia public charter schools 
for surplus public school property; $72,088,000 (including $40,148,000 
from local funds, $14,079,000 from Federal funds, and $17,861,000 from 
other funds) for the University of the District of Columbia; $23,419,000 
(including $22,326,000 from local funds, $686,000 from Federal funds, 
and $407,000 from other funds) for the Public Library; $2,187,000 
(including $1,826,000 from local funds and $361,000 from Federal funds) 
for the Commission on the Arts and Humanities: Provided further, That 
the public schools of the District of Columbia are authorized to accept 
not to exceed 31 motor vehicles for exclusive use in the driver 
education program: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the 
Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the President of the University of 
the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall be 
available from this appropriation for official purposes: Provided 
further, That $244,078 shall be used to reimburse the National Capital 
Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America for services provided on 
behalf of 12,600 students at 39 public schools in the District of 
Columbia during fiscal year 1998 (including staff, curriculum, and 
support materials): Provided further, That the Inspector General of the 
District of Columbia shall certify not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act whether or not the services were so 
provided: Provided further, That the reimbursement shall be made not 
later than 15 days after the Inspector General certifies that the 
services were provided: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this Act may be made available to pay the salaries of any 
District of Columbia Public School teacher, principal,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-129]]

administrator, official, or employee who knowingly provides false 
enrollment or attendance information under article II, section 5 of the 
Act entitled ``An Act to provide for compulsory school attendance, for 
the taking of a school census in the District of Columbia, and for other 
purposes'', approved February 4, 1925 (D.C. Code, sec. 31-401 et seq.): 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall not be available to 
subsidize the education of any nonresident of the District of Columbia 
at any District of Columbia public elementary or secondary school during 
fiscal year 1999 unless the nonresident pays tuition to the District of 
Columbia at a rate that covers 100 percent of the costs incurred by the 
District of Columbia which are attributable to the education of the 
nonresident (as established by the Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools): Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall not be available to subsidize the education of nonresidents of the 
District of Columbia at the University of the District of Columbia, 
unless the Board of Trustees of the University of the District of 
Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, a 
tuition rate schedule that will establish the tuition rate for 
nonresident students at a level no lower than the nonresident tuition 
rate charged at comparable public institutions of higher education in 
the metropolitan area.

                         Human Support Services

    Human support services, $1,514,751,000 (including $614,679,000 from 
local funds, $886,682,000 from Federal funds, and $13,390,000 from other 
funds): Provided, That $21,089,000 of this appropriation, to remain 
available until expended, shall be available solely for District of 
Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That a 
peer review committee shall be established to review medical payments 
and the type of service received by a disability compensation claimant: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia shall not provide free 
government services such as water, sewer, solid waste disposal or 
collection, utilities, maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any 
legally constituted private nonprofit organization, as defined in 
section 411(5) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (101 
Stat. 485; Public Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11371), providing emergency 
shelter services in the District, if the District would not be qualified 
to receive reimbursement pursuant to such Act (101 Stat. 485; Public Law 
100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle for 
use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by the 
Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-carrying 
vehicles, $266,912,000 (including $257,242,000 from local funds, 
$3,216,000 from Federal funds, and $6,454,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for collecting 
ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business.

           Washington Convention Center Fund Transfer Payment

    For payment to the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, 
$5,400,000 from local funds.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-130]]

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For reimbursement to the United States of funds loaned in compliance 
with the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the establishment of a 
modern, adequate, and efficient hospital center in the District of 
Columbia'', approved August 7, 1946 (60 Stat. 896; Public Law 79-648); 
section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize the Commissioners of 
the District of Columbia to borrow funds for capital improvement 
programs and to amend provisions of law relating to Federal Government 
participation in meeting costs of maintaining the Nation's Capital 
City'', approved June 6, 1958 (72 Stat. 183; Public Law 85-451; D.C. 
Code, sec. 9-219); section 4 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to plan, construct, 
operate, and maintain a sanitary sewer to connect the Dulles 
International Airport with the District of Columbia system'', approved 
June 12, 1960 (74 Stat. 211; Public Law 86-515); sections 723 and 743(f) 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973, 
as amended (87 Stat. 821; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321, 
note; 91 Stat. 1156; Public Law 95-131; D.C. Code, sec. 9-219, note), 
including interest as required thereby, $382,170,000 from local funds.

                 Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $38,453,000 from local 
funds, as authorized by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973, as amended (105 Stat. 540; Public 
Law 102-106; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321(a)(1)).

               Payment of Interest on Short-Term Borrowing

    For payment of interest on short-term borrowing, $11,000,000 from 
local funds.

                      Certificates of Participation

    For lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of 
Participation involving the land site underlying the building located at 
One Judiciary Square, $7,926,000 from local funds.

                       Human Resources Development

    For human resources development, including costs of increased 
employee training, administrative reforms, and an executive compensation 
system, $6,674,000 from local funds.

                          Productivity Savings

    The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall, under 
the direction of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, make reductions of $10,000,000 in local 
funds to one or more of the appropriation headings in this Act for 
productivity savings.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-131]]

                          Receivership Programs

    For all agencies of the District of Columbia government under court 
ordered receivership, $318,979,000 (including $189,154,000 from local 
funds, $96,691,000 from Federal funds, and $33,134,000 from other 
funds): Provided, That, of the sums made available to the Commission on 
Mental Health Services, $5,000,000 shall be available to a 501(c)(3) 
nonprofit organization formed in 1991 and located in the District of 
Columbia to finance capital improvements to community-based housing 
facilities dedicated for use only by seriously and chronically mentally 
ill individuals in the District of Columbia.

District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                                Authority

    For the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority, established by section 101(a) of the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, 
approved April 17, 1995 (109 Stat. 97; Public Law 104-8), $7,840,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
pay any compensation of the Executive Director or General Counsel of the 
Authority at a rate in excess of the maximum rate of compensation which 
may be paid to such individual during fiscal year 1999 under section 102 
of such Act, as determined by the Comptroller General (as described in 
GAO letter report B-279095.2).

                            ENTERPRISE FUNDS

          Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct, 
$273,314,000 from other funds (including $239,493,000 for the Water and 
Sewer Authority and $33,821,000 for the Washington Aqueduct) of which 
$39,933,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the District's debt 
service fund for repayment of loans and interest incurred for capital 
improvement projects.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established by 
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1982, approved December 4, 1981 (95 Stat. 1174, 1175; 
Public Law 97-91), as amended, for the purpose of implementing the Law 
to Legalize Lotteries, Daily Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for 
Charitable Purposes in the District of Columbia, effective March 10, 
1981 (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, secs. 2-2501 et seq. and 22-1516 et 
seq.), $225,200,000: Provided, That the District of Columbia shall 
identify the source of funding for this appropriation title from the 
District's own locally-generated revenues: Provided further, That no 
revenues from Federal sources shall be used to support the operations or 
activities of the Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-132]]

                    Cable Television Enterprise Fund

    For the Cable Television Enterprise Fund, established by the Cable 
Television Communications Act of 1981, effective October 22, 1983 (D.C. 
Law 5-36; D.C. Code, sec. 43-1801 et seq.), $2,108,000 from local funds.

                        Public Service Commission

    For the Public Service Commission, $5,026,000 (including $252,000 
from Federal funds and $4,774,000 from other funds).

                     Office of the People's Counsel

    For the Office of the People's Counsel, $2,501,000 from other funds.

            Department of Insurance and Securities Regulation

    For the Department of Insurance and Securities Regulation, 
$7,001,000 from other funds.

              Office of Banking and Financial Institutions

    For the Office of Banking and Financial Institutions, $640,000 
(including $390,000 from local funds and $250,000 from other funds).

                              Starplex Fund

    For the Starplex Fund, $8,751,000 from other funds for expenses 
incurred by the Armory Board in the exercise of its powers granted by 
the Act entitled ``An Act To Establish A District of Columbia Armory 
Board, and for other purposes'', approved June 4, 1948 (62 Stat. 339; 
D.C. Code, sec. 2-301 et seq.) and the District of Columbia Stadium Act 
of 1957, approved September 7, 1957 (71 Stat. 619; Public Law 85-300; 
D.C. Code, sec. 2-321 et seq.): Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a 
budget for the Armory Board for the forthcoming fiscal year as required 
by section 442(b) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved 
December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 824; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-
301(b)).

                          D.C. General Hospital

    For the District of Columbia General Hospital, established by 
Reorganization Order No. 57 of the Board of Commissioners, effective 
August 15, 1953, $113,599,000 of which $46,835,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the general fund and $66,764,000 shall be derived from 
other funds.

                          D.C. Retirement Board

    For the D.C. Retirement Board, established by section 121 of the 
District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979, approved November 
17, 1979 (93 Stat. 866; D.C. Code, sec. 1-711), $18,202,000 from the 
earnings of the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, 
investment, and other fees and administrative expenses of the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-133]]

Provided, That the District of Columbia Retirement Board shall provide 
to the Congress and to the Council of the District of Columbia a 
quarterly report of the allocations of charges by fund and of 
expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for transmittal to 
the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized accounting of the 
planned use of appropriated funds in time for each annual budget 
submission and the actual use of such funds in time for each annual 
audited financial report.

                      Correctional Industries Fund

    For the Correctional Industries Fund, established by the District of 
Columbia Correctional Industries Establishment Act, approved October 3, 
1964 (78 Stat. 1000; Public Law 88-622), $3,332,000 from other funds.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $53,539,000, 
of which $5,400,000 shall be derived by transfer from the general fund.

                                PERSONNEL

    The government of the District of Columbia shall employ no more than 
32,900 FTE positions, exclusive of intra-District FTE positions, during 
fiscal year 1999.

                             Capital Outlay

    For construction projects, a net increase of $1,711,160,737 
(including a rescission of $114,430,742 of which $24,437,811 is from 
local funds and $89,992,931 is from highway trust funds appropriated 
under this heading in prior fiscal years, and an additional 
$1,825,591,479 of which $718,234,161 is from local funds, $24,452,538 is 
from the highway trust fund, and $1,082,904,780 is from Federal funds), 
to remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds for use of each capital project implementing agency 
shall be managed and controlled in accordance with all procedures and 
limitations established under the Financial Management System: Provided 
further, That all funds provided by this appropriation title shall be 
available only for the specific projects and purposes intended: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the foregoing, all authorizations for 
capital outlay projects, except those projects covered by the first 
sentence of section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968, 
approved August 23, 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 90-495; D.C. Code, 
sec. 7-134, note), for which funds are provided by this appropriation 
title, shall expire on September 30, 2000, except authorizations for 
projects for which funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior 
to September 30, 2000: Provided further, That upon expiration of any 
such project authorization the funds provided herein for the project 
shall lapse.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-134]]

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 102. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all vouchers 
covering expenditures of appropriations contained in this Act shall be 
audited before payment by the designated certifying official, and the 
vouchers as approved shall be paid by checks issued by the designated 
disbursing official.
    Sec. 103. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations in this Act shall be available, when 
authorized by the Mayor, for allowances for privately owned automobiles 
and motorcycles used for the performance of official duties at rates 
established by the Mayor: Provided, That such rates shall not exceed the 
maximum prevailing rates for such vehicles as prescribed in the Federal 
Property Management Regulations 101-7 (Federal Travel Regulations).
    Sec. 105. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for expenses 
of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations concerned with 
the work of the District of Columbia government, when authorized by the 
Mayor: Provided, That, in the case of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, funds may be expended with the authorization of the chair of 
the Council.
    Sec. 106. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided, That nothing contained in 
this section shall be construed as modifying or affecting the provisions 
of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the District of Columbia Income and 
Franchise Tax Act of 1947, approved March 31, 1956 (70 Stat. 78; Public 
Law 84-460; D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 107. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of public assistance without reference to the requirement of 
section 544 of the District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982, 
effective April 6, 1982 (D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Code, sec. 3-205.44), and 
for payment of the non-Federal share of funds necessary to qualify for 
grants under subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994.
    Sec. 108. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

    Sec. 109. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be used 
to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-135]]

the availability of school buildings for the use of any community or 
partisan political group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the Subcommittee on the District of 
Columbia of the House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, the 
Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, Restructuring and 
the District of Columbia of the Senate Committee on Governmental 
Affairs, and the Council of the District of Columbia, or their duly 
authorized representative.
    Sec. 111. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977, 
effective September 23, 1977 (D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 112. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including boycott 
designed to support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
State legislature.
    Sec. 113. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 114. The Mayor shall not borrow any funds for capital projects 
unless the Mayor has obtained prior approval from the Council of the 
District of Columbia, by resolution, identifying the projects and 
amounts to be financed with such borrowings.
    Sec. 115. The Mayor shall not expend any moneys borrowed for capital 
projects for the operating expenses of the District of Columbia 
government.
    Sec. 116. None of the funds provided under this Act to the agencies 
funded by this Act, both Federal and District government agencies, that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1999, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for an agency through a 
reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a 
program, project, or activity; (3) establishes or changes allocations 
specifically denied, limited or increased by Congress in the Act; (4) 
increases funds or personnel by any means for any project or activity 
for which funds have been denied or restricted; (5) reestablishes 
through reprogramming any program or project previously deferred through 
reprogramming; (6) augments existing programs, projects, or activities 
through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less; or (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel 
assigned to a specific program, project or activity; unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both the Senate and House of 
Representatives are notified in writing thirty days in advance of any 
reprogramming as set forth in this section.
    Sec. 117. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-136]]

or other personal servants to any officer or employee of the District of 
Columbia.

    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to procure passenger automobiles as defined in the 
Automobile Fuel Efficiency Act of 1980, approved October 10, 1980 (94 
Stat. 1824; Public Law 96-425; 15 U.S.C. 2001(2)), with an Environmental 
Protection Agency estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 
miles per gallon: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
security, emergency rescue, or armored vehicles.
    Sec. 119. (a) Notwithstanding section 422(7) of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public 
Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(7)), the City Administrator shall be 
paid, during any fiscal year, a salary at a rate established by the 
Mayor, not to exceed the rate established for Level IV of the Executive 
Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5315.
    (b) For purposes of applying any provision of law limiting the 
availability of funds for payment of salary or pay in any fiscal year, 
the highest rate of pay established by the Mayor under subsection (a) of 
this section for any position for any period during the last quarter of 
calendar year 1998 shall be deemed to be the rate of pay payable for 
that position for September 30, 1998.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 4(a) of the District of Columbia 
Redevelopment Act of 1945, approved August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 793; Public 
Law 79-592; D.C. Code, sec. 5-803(a)), the Board of Directors of the 
District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency shall be paid, during any 
fiscal year, per diem compensation at a rate established by the Mayor.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 
790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(3)), shall apply with 
respect to the compensation of District of Columbia employees: Provided, 
That for pay purposes, employees of the District of Columbia government 
shall not be subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 121. The Director of the Office of Property Management may pay 
rentals and repair, alter, and improve rented premises, without regard 
to the provisions of section 322 of the Economy Act of 1932 (Public Law 
72-212; 40 U.S.C. 278a), based upon a determination by the Director, 
that by reason of circumstances set forth in such determination, the 
payment of these rents and the execution of this work, without reference 
to the limitations of section 322, is advantageous to the District in 
terms of economy, efficiency, and the District's best interest.
    Sec. 122. No later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the District of Columbia the 
new fiscal year 1999 revenue estimates as of the end of the first 
quarter of fiscal year 1999. These estimates shall be used in the budget 
request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000. The officially 
revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the midyear report.
    Sec. 123. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-137]]

without opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set 
forth in section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices 
Act of 1985, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 
1-1183.3), except that the District of Columbia government or any agency 
thereof may renew or extend sole source contracts for which competition 
is not feasible or practical: Provided, That the determination as to 
whether to invoke the competitive bidding process has been made in 
accordance with duly promulgated rules and procedures and said 
determination has been reviewed and
approved by the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.

    Sec. 124. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public 
Law 99-177), as amended, the term ``program, project, and activity'' 
shall be synonymous with and refer specifically to each account 
appropriating Federal funds in this Act, and any sequestration order 
shall be applied to each of the accounts rather than to the aggregate 
total of those accounts: Provided, That sequestration orders shall not 
be applied to any account that is specifically exempted from 
sequestration by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 125. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, approved 
December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037: Public Law 99-177), as amended, after 
the amounts appropriated to the District of Columbia for the fiscal year 
involved have been paid to the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia shall pay to the Secretary of the Treasury, within 
15 days after receipt of a request therefor from the Secretary of the 
Treasury, such amounts as are sequestered by the order: Provided, That 
the sequestration percentage specified in the order shall be applied 
proportionately to each of the Federal appropriation accounts in this 
Act that are not specifically exempted from sequestration by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 126. (a) An entity of the District of Columbia government may 
accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal year 1999 if--
            (1) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the gift or 
        donation: Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia 
        may accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor; 
        and
            (2) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry out its 
        authorized functions or duties.

    (b) Each entity of the District of Columbia government shall keep 
accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under subsection (a) of this section, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``entity of the 
District of Columbia government'' includes an independent agency of the 
District of Columbia.
    (d) This section shall not apply to the District of Columbia Board 
of Education, which may, pursuant to the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia, accept and use gifts to the public schools without 
prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 127. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be used 
by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or other 
costs associated with the offices of United States Senator

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-138]]

or United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979, 
effective March 10, 1981 (D.C. Law 3-171; D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 128. (a) The University of the District of Columbia shall 
submit to the Mayor, the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority (hereafter in this section referred 
to as ``Authority''), and the Council of the District of Columbia 
(hereafter in this section referred to as ``Council'') no later than 15 
calendar days after the end of each month a report that sets forth--
            (1) current month expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
        expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
        projections versus budget, broken out on the basis of control 
        center, responsibility center, and object class, and for all 
        funds, non-appropriated funds, and capital financing;
            (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and 
        the amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
        responsibility center, detailed object, and for all funding 
        sources;
            (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
        annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget 
        to which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of 
        control center and responsibility center, and contract 
        identifying codes used by the University of the District of 
        Columbia; payments made in the last month and year-to-date, the 
        total amount of the contract and total payments made for the 
        contract and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and 
        specific modifications made to each contract in the last month;
            (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that have been 
        made by the University of the District of Columbia within the 
        last month in compliance with applicable law; and
            (5) changes made in the last month to the organizational 
        structure of the University of the District of Columbia, 
        displaying previous and current control centers and 
        responsibility centers, the names of the organizational entities 
        that have been changed, the name of the staff member supervising 
        each entity affected, and the reasons for the structural change.

    (b) The Mayor, the Authority, and the Council shall provide the 
Congress by February 1, 2000, a summary, analysis, and recommendations 
on the information provided in the monthly reports.
    Sec. 129. Funds authorized or previously appropriated to the 
government of the District of Columbia by this or any other Act to 
procure the necessary hardware and installation of new software, 
conversion, testing, and training to improve or replace its financial 
management system are also available for the acquisition of accounting 
and financial management services and the leasing of necessary hardware, 
software or any other related goods or services, as determined by the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority.
    Sec. 130. None of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the fees of an attorney who represents a party who 
prevails in an action, including an administrative proceeding, brought 
against the District of Columbia Public Schools under the Individuals 
with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) if--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-139]]

            (1) the hourly rate of compensation of the attorney exceeds 
        the hourly rate of compensation under section 11-2604(a), 
        District of Columbia Code; or
            (2) the maximum amount of compensation of the attorney 
        exceeds the maximum amount of compensation under section 11-
        2604(b)(1), District of Columbia Code, except that compensation 
        and reimbursement in excess of such maximum may be approved for 
        extended or complex representation in accordance with section 
        11-2604(c), District of Columbia Code.

    Sec. 131. <<NOTE: Abortion.>> None of the funds appropriated under 
this Act shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of the 
mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where 
the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

    Sec. 132. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Services to District of 
Columbia Public Schools. In using funds made available under this Act or 
any other Act for the repair and improvement of the District of 
Columbia's public school facilities, any entity of the District of 
Columbia government, including the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, or its designee, may 
place orders for engineering and construction and related services with 
the Chief of Engineers of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The
Chief of Engineers may accept such orders on a reimbursable basis and 
may provide any part of such services by contract. In providing such 
services, the Chief of Engineers shall follow the Federal Acquisition 
Regulations and the implementing Department of Defense regulations. This 
section shall apply to fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 133. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 
(D.C. Law 9-114; D.C. Code, sec. 36-1401 et seq.) or to otherwise 
implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, cohabiting 
couples (whether homosexual, heterosexual, or lesbian), including but 
not limited to registration for the purpose of extending employment, 
health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the same basis that 
such benefits are extended to legally married couples.
    Sec. 134. The Emergency Transitional Education Board of Trustees 
shall submit to the Congress, the Mayor, the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, and the 
Council of the District of Columbia no later than 15 calendar days after 
the end of each month a report that sets forth--
            (1) current month expenditures and obligations, year-to-date 
        expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year expenditure 
        projections versus budget, broken out on the basis of control 
        center, responsibility center, agency reporting code, and object 
        class, and for all funds, including capital financing;
            (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and 
        the amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
        responsibility center, detailed object, and agency reporting 
        code, and for all funding sources;
            (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
        annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget 
        to which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of 
        control center, responsibility center, and agency reporting 
        code; and contract identifying codes used by the District

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-140]]

        of Columbia Public Schools; payments made in the last month and 
        year-to-date, the total amount of the contract and total 
        payments made for the contract and any modifications, 
        extensions, renewals; and specific modifications made to each 
        contract in the last month;
            (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that are required 
        to be, and have been, submitted to the Board of Education; and
            (5) changes made in the last month to the organizational 
        structure of the D.C. Public Schools, displaying previous and 
        current control centers and responsibility centers, the names of 
        the organizational entities that have been changed, the name of 
        the staff member supervising each entity affected, and the 
        reasons for the structural change.

    Sec. 135. (a) In General.--The Emergency Transitional Education 
Board of Trustees of the District of Columbia and the University of the 
District of Columbia shall annually compile an accurate and verifiable 
report on the positions and employees in the public school system and 
the university, respectively. The annual report shall set forth--
            (1) the number of validated schedule A positions in the 
        District of Columbia public schools and the University of the 
        District of Columbia for fiscal year 1998, fiscal year 1999, and 
        thereafter on full-time equivalent basis, including a 
        compilation of all positions by control center, responsibility 
        center, funding source, position type, position title, pay plan, 
        grade, and annual salary; and
            (2) a compilation of all employees in the District of 
        Columbia public schools and the University of the District of 
        Columbia as of the preceding December 31, verified as to its 
        accuracy in accordance with the functions that each employee 
        actually performs, by control center, responsibility center, 
        agency reporting code, program (including funding source), 
        activity, location for accounting purposes, job title, grade and 
        classification, annual salary, and position control number.

    (b) Submission.--The annual report required by subsection (a) of 
this section shall be submitted to the Congress, the Mayor, the District 
of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the Authority, not 
later than February 15 of each year.
    Sec. 136. (a) No later than October 1, 1998, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, and each succeeding year, the Superintendent of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools and the University of the District of Columbia 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, the 
District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the District 
of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the public 
school system and the University of the District of Columbia for such 
fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation 
and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-
personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.

    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the Superintendent 
of the District of Columbia Public Schools and the University of the 
District of Columbia submit to the Mayor of the District

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-141]]

of Columbia for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission to the 
Council of the District of Columbia pursuant to section 442 of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act, Public Law 93-198, as amended (D.C. 
Code, sec. 47-301).
    Sec. 137. The Emergency Transitional Education Board of Trustees, 
the Board of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia, the 
Board of Library Trustees, and the Board of Governors of the University 
of the District of Columbia School of Law shall vote on and approve 
their respective annual or revised budgets before submission to the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia for inclusion in the Mayor's budget 
submission to the Council of the District of Columbia in accordance with 
section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, Public Law 93-
198, as amended (D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), or before submitting their 
respective budgets directly to the Council.
    Sec. 138. (a) Ceiling on Total Operating Expenses.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses 
        for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 1999 under the 
        caption ``Division of Expenses'' shall not exceed the lesser 
        of--
                    (A) the sum of the total revenues of the District of 
                Columbia for such fiscal year; or
                    (B) $5,211,920,000 (of which $132,912,000 shall be 
                from intra-District funds and $2,865,763,000 shall be 
                from local funds), which amount may be increased by the 
                following:
                          (i) proceeds of one-time transactions, which 
                      are expended for emergency or unanticipated 
                      operating or capital needs approved by the 
                      District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
                      Management Assistance Authority; or
                          (ii) after notification to the Council, 
                      additional expenditures which the Chief Financial 
                      Officer of the District of Columbia certifies will 
                      produce additional revenues during such fiscal 
                      year at least equal to 200 percent of such 
                      additional expenditures, and that are approved by 
                      the Authority.
            (2) Enforcement.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District of Columbia and the Authority shall take such steps as 
        are necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets the 
        requirements of this section, including the apportioning by the 
        Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and funds made 
        available to the District during fiscal year 1999, except that 
        the Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for operating 
        expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other 
        obligations issued for capital projects.

    (b) Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in Ceiling.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Mayor, 
        in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, during a 
        control year, as defined in section 305(4) of the District of 
        Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act 
        of 1995, approved April 17, 1995 (Public Law 104-8; 109 Stat. 
        152), may accept, obligate, and expend Federal, private, and 
        other grants received by the District government that are not 
        reflected in the amounts appropriated in this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-142]]

            (2) Requirement of chief financial officer report and 
        authority approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant 
        may be accepted, obligated, or expended pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) until--
                    (A) the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                Columbia submits to the Authority a report setting forth 
                detailed information regarding such grant; and
                    (B) the Authority has reviewed and approved the 
                acceptance, obligation, and expenditure of such grant in 
                accordance with review and approval procedures 
                consistent with the provisions of the District of 
                Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
                Assistance Act of 1995.
            (3) Prohibition on spending in anticipation of approval or 
        receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the 
        general fund or other funds of the District government in 
        anticipation of the approval or receipt of a grant under 
        paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection or in anticipation of the 
        approval or receipt of a Federal, private, or other grant not 
        subject to such paragraph.
            (4) Monthly reports.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District of Columbia shall prepare a monthly report setting 
        forth detailed information regarding all Federal, private, and 
        other grants subject to this subsection. Each such report shall 
        be submitted to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to 
        the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the 
        month covered by the report.

    (c) Report on Expenditures by Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.--Not later than 20 calendar days after 
the end of each fiscal quarter starting October 1, 1998, the Authority 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Government Reform 
and Oversight of the House, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of 
the Senate providing an itemized accounting of all non-appropriated 
funds obligated or expended by the Authority for the quarter. The report 
shall include information on the date, amount, purpose, and vendor name, 
and a description of the services or goods provided with respect to the 
expenditures of such funds.

    (d) Application of Excess Revenues.--Local revenues collected in 
excess of amounts required to support appropriations in this Act for 
operating expenses for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 1999 
under the caption ``Division of Expenses'' shall be applied first to the 
elimination of the general fund accumulated deficit; second to a reserve 
account not to exceed $250,000,000 to be used to finance seasonal cash 
needs (in lieu of short term borrowings); third to accelerate repayment 
of cash borrowed from the Water and Sewer Fund; and fourth to reduce the 
outstanding long-term debt.
    Sec. 139. University of the District of Columbia Investment 
Authority. Section 108(b) of the District of Columbia Public Education 
Act (D.C. Code, sec. 31-1408) is amended by striking the period at the 
end of the sentence and adding the phrase ``, except that the funds 
appropriated in this section also may be invested in equity-based 
securities if approved by the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
Columbia.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-143]]

    Sec. 140. If a department or agency of the government of the 
District of Columbia is under the administration of a court-appointed 
receiver or other court-appointed official during fiscal year 1999 or 
any succeeding fiscal year, the receiver or official shall prepare and 
submit to the Mayor, for inclusion in the annual budget of the District 
of Columbia for the year, annual estimates of the expenditures and 
appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the 
department or agency. All such estimates shall be forwarded by the Mayor 
to the Council, for its action pursuant to sections 446 and 603(c) of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, without revision but subject to 
the Mayor's recommendations. Notwithstanding any provision of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 
790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code sec. 1-101 et seq.) the Council may 
comment or make recommendations concerning such annual estimates but 
shall have no authority under such Act to revise such estimates.
    Sec. 141. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority and the Superintendent of the District 
of Columbia Public Schools are hereby directed to report to the 
Appropriations Committees of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
Representatives not later than April 1, 1999, on all measures necessary 
and steps to be taken to ensure that the District's Public Schools open 
on time to begin the 1999-2000 academic year.
    Sec. 142. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, an employee of the District of Columbia public schools shall 
be--
            (1) classified as an Educational Service employee;
            (2) placed under the personnel authority of the Board of 
        Education; and
            (3) subject to all Board of Education rules.

    (b) School-based personnel shall constitute a separate competitive 
area from nonschool-based personnel who shall not compete with school-
based personnel for retention purposes.
    Sec. 143. (a) Restrictions on Use of Official Vehicles.--(1) Except 
as otherwise provided in this section, none of the funds made available 
by this Act or by any other Act may be used to provide any officer or 
employee of the District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of the 
officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of this paragraph, 
the term ``official duties'' does not include travel between the 
officer's or employee's residence and workplace (except in the case of 
an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police Department who resides 
in the District of Columbia or is otherwise designated by the Chief of 
the Department).
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to any vehicle 
provided to the officer of the Metropolitan Police Department who was 
wounded in the line of duty and who is referred to in the letter of July 
15, 1998, from the Chief of the Department to the Chair of the 
Subcommittee on the District of Columbia of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives. Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Chief may donate the vehicle to such officer 
as a gift on behalf of the District of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-144]]

Columbia, and the donation shall not be subject to any Federal, State, 
or local income or gift tax.
    (3) The Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall 
submit, by November 15, 1998, an inventory, as of September 30, 1998, of 
all vehicles owned, leased or operated by the District of Columbia 
government. The inventory shall include, but not be limited to, the 
department to which the vehicle is assigned; the year and make of the 
vehicle; the acquisition date and cost; the general condition of the 
vehicle; annual operating and maintenance costs; current mileage; and 
whether the vehicle is allowed to be taken home by a District officer or 
employee and if so, the officer or employee's title and resident 
location.
    Sec. 144. (a) Source of Payment for Employees Detailed Within 
Government.--For purposes of determining the amount of funds expended by 
any entity within the District of Columbia government during fiscal year 
1999 and each succeeding fiscal year, any expenditures of the District 
government attributable to any officer or employee of the District 
government who provides services which are within the authority and 
jurisdiction of the entity (including any portion of the compensation 
paid to the officer or employee attributable to the time spent in 
providing such services) shall be treated as expenditures made from the 
entity's budget, without regard to whether the officer or employee is 
assigned to the entity or otherwise treated as an officer or employee of 
the entity.
    (b) Modification of Reduction in Force Procedures.--The District of 
Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), as amended, is further amended in section 
2408(a) by deleting ``1998'' and inserting, ``1999''; in subsection (b), 
by deleting ``1998'' and inserting, ``1999''; in subsection (i), by 
deleting ``1998'' and inserting, ``1999''; and in subsection (k), by 
deleting ``1998'' and inserting, ``1999''.
    Sec. 145. Assessment and Placement of Special Education Students. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 120 days 
after the date that a District of Columbia Public Schools [DCPS] student 
is referred for evaluation or assessment--
            (1) the District of Columbia Board of Education (referred to 
        in this section as the ``Board''),
or its successor and DCPS shall assess or evaluate a student who may 
have a disability and who may require special education services; and
            (2) if a student is classified as having a disability, as 
        defined in section 101(a)(1) of the Individuals with 
        Disabilities Education Act (84 Stat. 175; 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) 
        or in section 7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 
        359; 29 U.S.C. 706(8)), the Board and DCPS shall place that 
        student in an appropriate program of special education services.

    Sec. 146. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-145]]

        of the Congress that entities receiving the assistance should, 
        in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made 
        equipment and products to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each agency of the Federal or District of Columbia 
        government shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
        notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
        Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. <<NOTE: 36 USC 151106 note.>> 147. Notwithstanding any 
provision of any Federally-granted charter or any other provision of 
law, beginning with fiscal year 1999 and for each fiscal year hereafter, 
the real property of the National Education Association located in the 
District of Columbia shall be subject to taxation by the District of 
Columbia in the same manner as any similar organization.

    Sec. 148. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
purposes of the annual independent audit of the District of Columbia 
government (including the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority) for fiscal year 1999 unless--
            (1) the audit is conducted by the Inspector General of the 
        District of Columbia pursuant to section 208(a)(4) of the 
        District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985 (D.C. 
        Code, sec. 1-1182.8(a)(4)); and
            (2) the audit includes a comparison of audited actual year-
        end results with the revenues submitted in the budget document 
        for such year and the appropriations enacted into law for such 
        year.

    Sec. 149. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any 
office, agency or entity to expend funds for programs or functions for 
which a reorganization plan is required but has not been approved by the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority (hereafter in this section referred to as ``Authority''). 
Appropriations made by this Act for such programs or functions are 
conditioned only on the approval by the Authority of the required 
reorganization plans.
    Sec. 150. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or 
regulation, the evaluation process and instruments for evaluating 
District of Columbia Public Schools employees shall be a non-negotiable 
item for collective bargaining purposes.
    Sec. 151. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used by the 
District of Columbia Corporation Counsel or any other officer or entity 
of the District government to provide assistance for any petition drive 
or civil action which seeks to require Congress to provide for voting 
representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-146]]

    Sec. 152. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority (hereafter in this section referred to 
as ``Authority'') shall report to the Appropriations Committees of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government Reform and 
Oversight of the House of Representatives, by February 15, 1999, on the 
status of all partnerships or agreements entered into from January 1, 
1994 through September 30, 1998, between the District of Columbia 
government and any nonprofit organization that
provides medical care, substance abuse treatment, low income housing, 
food and shelter services, abstinance programs, or educational services 
to children, adults and families residing in the District. For those 
partnerships or agreements that have been terminated, the Authority 
shall report to Congress on the plans by the District government for 
reinitiating the partnerships or agreements with the respective 
nonprofit organization.

    Sec. 153. The Residency Requirement Reinstatement Amendment Act of 
1998 (D.C. Act 12-340) is hereby repealed.
    Sec. 154. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used after 
April 1, 1999, to transfer or confine inmates classified above the 
medium security level, as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons 
classification instrument, to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center 
located in Youngstown, Ohio.
    Sec. 155. Reserve.--The District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, Public Law 104-8, 
sec. 202 is amended to include the following:
    ``(i) Reserve.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000, the plan or budget 
submitted pursuant to this Act shall contain $150,000,000 for a reserve 
to be established by the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority: Provided, That the reserve shall only 
be expended according to criteria established by the Chief Financial 
Officer and approved by the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.''.
    Sec. 156. Library Fundraising Authority.--D.C. Code Section 37-105 
is amended by striking the word ``and'' after section (11) and striking 
the period after section (12) and adding the following phrase:
    ``, (13) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board of 
Trustees of the District of Columbia Public Library is authorized to 
hire a fundraiser and to raise funds from private sources and expend 
those funds for the benefit of the District of Columbia Public Library, 
with the prior review and approval of the Chief Financial Officer for 
the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.''.
    Sec. 157. District of Columbia Adoption Improvement Act of 1998. (a) 
Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Adoption Improvement Act of 1998''.
    (b) Database.--The District of Columbia Child and Family Services 
Agency (referred to as ``CFSA'') shall maintain an accurate database 
listing and tracking any child found by the Family Division of the 
District of Columbia Superior Court to be abused or neglected and who is 
in the custody of the District of Columbia, including any child with the 
goal of adoption or legally free for adoption.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-147]]

    (c) Contracting With Private Service Providers.--
            (1) Private contracts.--Not later than September 30, 1999, 
        CFSA shall enter into contracts with private service providers 
        to perform some of the adoption recruitment and placement 
        functions of CFSA, which may include recruitment, homestudy, and 
        placement services.
            (2) Competitive bidding.--Any contract entered into pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) shall be subject to a competitive bidding 
        process when required by CFSA contracting policies and 
        procedures.
            (3) Performance-based compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Any contract entered into pursuant 
                to paragraph (1) shall compensate the winning bidder 
                pursuant to paragraph (2) upon completion of contract 
                deliverables.
                    (B) Contract deliverables.--In identifying contract 
                deliverables, CFSA shall consider--
                          (i) in the case of recruitment, receipt of a 
                      list of potential adoptive families;
                          (ii) in the case of homestudies, receipt of a 
                      completed homestudy in a form specified in advance 
                      by CFSA; or
                          (iii) in the case of placements, the child is 
                      placed in an adoptive home approved by CFSA or the 
                      adoption is finalized.
            (4) Types of contracts.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to prevent CFSA from entering into contracts that 
        provide for multiple deliverables or conditions for partial 
        payment.
            (5) Removal of barriers to adoption.--CFSA shall meet with 
        contractors to address issues identified during the term of a 
        contract entered into pursuant to this section, including issues 
        related to barriers to timely adoptions.

    Sec. 158. Clarification of Responsibility for Adult Offender 
Supervision in the District of Columbia. (a) Section 11233(b)(2) of the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997 (Public Law 105-33) is amended by--
            (1) striking ``; and'' in subparagraph (F) and inserting 
        ``;'';
            (2) striking ``Columbia.'' in subparagraph (G) and inserting 
        ``Columbia; and''; and
            (3) inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:
                    ``(H) carry out all functions which have heretofore 
                been carried out by the Social Services Division of the 
                Superior Court relating to supervision of adults subject 
                to protection orders or provision of services for or 
                related to such persons.''.

    (b) Section 11-1722 of the District of Columbia Code is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``juvenile'' after ``all'' in the 
                first sentence; and
                    (B) by amending the second sentence to read as 
                follows: ``The Director shall have no jurisdiction over 
                any adult under supervision.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), inserting ``including the agency 
        established by section 11233(a) of the National Capital 
        Revitalization

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-148]]

        and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997,'' after 
        ``Columbia,''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), by inserting ``juvenile'' after 
        ``of''.

    Sec. 159. Public Law 104-8 is amended by adding new section 109 as 
follows:

``SEC. 109. CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER.

    ``(a) The Authority may employ a Chief Management Officer of the 
District of Columbia, who shall be appointed by the Chair with the 
consent of the Authority. The Chief Management Officer shall assist the 
Authority in the fulfillment of its responsibilities under the District 
of Columbia Management Reform Act of 1997, subtitle B of the National 
Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
title XI of Public Law 105-33, to improve the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the District of Columbia Government. The Authority may 
delegate to the Chief Management Officer responsibility for oversight 
and supervision of departments and functions of the District of Columbia 
Government, or successor departments and functions, consistent with the 
District of Columbia Management Reform Act of 1997, subtitle B of the 
National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
1997, title XI of Public Law 105-33. The Chief Management Officer shall 
report directly to the
Authority, through the Chair of the Authority, and shall be directed in 
his or her performance by a majority of the Authority. The Chief 
Management Officer shall be paid at an annual rate determined by the 
Authority sufficient in the judgment of the Authority to obtain the 
services of an individual with the skills and experience required to 
discharge the duties of the office.

    ``(b) Employment Contract.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the employment agreement entered into as of January 15, 1998, 
between the Chief Management Officer and the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority shall be 
valid in all respects.''.
    Sec. 160. Section 1-1182.8(a)(4)(A) of the D.C. Code is amended to 
read as follows--
    ``(A) Audit the financial statement and report described in 
paragraph (3)(H) for a fiscal year, except that the financial statement 
and report may not be audited by the same auditor (or an auditor 
employed by or affiliated with the same auditor) for more than 5 
consecutive fiscal years; and''.
    Sec. 161. Deficit Reduction and Revitalization.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law or this Act, funds allocated to management reform 
by the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority under this heading in Public Law 105-100 (111 Stat. 
2159), as contained in the Authority's notification of June 24, 1998, 
shall remain available for management reform until September 30, 1999: 
Provided, That said funds shall not exceed $3,200,000.
    Sec. 162. Prompt Payments. (a) Section 3901 of title 31, United 
States Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection 
(d):
    ``(d)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this section, this 
chapter, except section 3907 of this title, applies to the District of 
Columbia Courts.
    ``(2) A claim for an interest penalty not paid under this chapter 
may be filed in the same manner as claims are filed with respect

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-149]]

to contracts to provide property or services for the District of 
Columbia Courts.
    ``(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), an interest penalty 
under this chapter does not continue to accrue for more than one year or 
after a claim for an interest penalty is filed in the manner described 
in paragraph (2), whichever is earlier.
    ``(B) If a claim for an interest penalty is filed in the manner 
described in paragraph (2) and interest is not available for such claims 
under the laws and regulations governing claims under contracts to 
provide property or services for the District of Columbia Courts, 
interest will accrue under this chapter as provided in paragraph (A) and 
from the date the claim is filed until the date the claim is paid.
    ``(4) Paragraph (3) of this subsection does not prevent an interest 
penalty from accruing on a claim if such interest is available for such 
claim under the laws and regulations governing claims under contracts to 
provide property or services for the District of Columbia Courts. Such 
interest may accrue on an unpaid contract payment and on the unpaid 
penalty under this chapter.
    ``(5) Except as provided in section 3904 of this title, this chapter 
does not require an interest penalty on a payment that is not made 
because of a dispute between the head of an agency and a business 
concern over the amount of payment or compliance with the contract. A 
claim related to the dispute, and any interest payable for the period 
during which the dispute is being resolved, is subject to the laws and 
regulations governing claims under contracts to provide property or 
services for the District of Columbia Courts.''.
    Sec. 163. Section 147 of the Nation's Capital Bicentennial 
Designation Act (Public Law 105-100; 111 Stat. 2180) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)(B) by striking ``President's Day'' 
        and inserting ``Washington's Birthday'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1) by striking ``President's Day'' and 
        inserting ``Washington's Birthday''.

    Sec. 164. Section 101(b) of the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, Public Law 104-8, 
109 Stat. 97, is amended by adding at the end of paragraph (5) the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Continuation of service until successor 
                appointed.--Upon the expiration of a term of office, a 
                member of the Authority may continue to serve until a 
                successor has been appointed.''

    Sec. 165. Section 456(d)(2) of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
Act (87 Stat. 774; Public Law 93-198, as amended) is amended by adding 
at the end:
                    ``(H) A statement of the balance of each account 
                held by the District of Columbia Financial 
                Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority as of 
                the end of the quarter, together with a description of 
                the activities within each such account during the 
                quarter based on information supplied by the 
                Authority.''.
      Sec. 166. No funds made available pursuant to any provision of 
this Act or any other act now or hereafter enacted shall be used to 
capitalize the National Capital Revitalization Corporation or for the 
purpose of implementing the National Capital Revitalization Act of 1998 
(D.C. Act 12-355) until at least 30 days after the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-150]]

Assistance Authority submits to the appropriate committees of Congress 
an economic development strategy.

    Sec. 167. The District of Columbia government shall maintain for 
fiscal year 1999 the same funding levels as provided in fiscal year 1997 
for homeless services in the District of Columbia: Provided, That in 
addition to such amounts, $1,000,000 shall be paid to The Doe Fund for 
its Ready, Willing & Able program in Washington, D.C.
    Sec. 168. (a) No later than November 1, 1998, or within 30 calendar 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs 
later, the Chief Financial Officer shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for all agencies of the District of 
Columbia government for such fiscal year that is in the total amount of 
the approved appropriation and that realigns budgeted data for personal 
services and other-than-personal-services, respectively, with 
anticipated actual expenditures.
    (b) The revised budget required by subsection (a) of this section 
shall be submitted in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act, Public Law 93-198, as amended (D.C. Code, sec. 
47-301).
    Sec. 169. Notwithstanding section 602(c)(1) of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973, as amended (87 Stat. 
813; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-233(c)(1), D.C. Act 12-421), 
``Oyster Elementary School Construction and Revenue Bond Act of 1998'', 
shall take effect upon the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 170. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the 
hypodermic injection of any illegal drug, or for any payment to any 
individual or entity who carries out any such program.
    Sec. 171. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
conduct any ballot initiative which seeks to legalize or otherwise 
reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of 
any schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
802) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
    This Act may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.
      (d) For programs, projects or activities in the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1999, provided as follows, to be effective as if it had been enacted 
into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                TITLE I--EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-151]]

Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the program for the current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, 
That none of the funds available during the current fiscal year may be 
used to make expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of 
nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a 
nuclear-weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
           explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $765,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until 2013 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
2001, and 2002: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or any prior Act appropriating funds for foreign operations, 
export financing, or related programs for tied-aid credits or grants may 
be used for any other purpose except through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated by this paragraph are made available notwithstanding 
section 2(b)(2) of the Export Import Bank Act of 1945, in connection 
with the purchase or lease of any product by any East European country, 
           any Baltic State or any agency or national thereof.

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs (to be computed on an accrual basis), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $22,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
$50,000,000: Provided, That necessary expenses (including special 
services performed on a contract or fee
basis, but not including other personal services) in connection with the 
collection of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale 
of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank 
in satisfaction of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, or the 
investigation or appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the 
legal or technical aspects of any transaction for which an application 
for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made, shall be 
considered nonadministrative expenses for the purposes of this heading: 
Provided <<NOTE: 12 USC 635a note. overseas private investment 
corporation noncredit account>> further, That, notwithstanding 
subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, 
subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until October 1, 1999.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-152]]

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to carry 
out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for official 
reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed $35,000) 
shall not exceed $32,500,000 of which not more than $27,500,000 may be 
made available until the Corporation reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations on measures taken to (1) establish sector specific 
investment funds; and (2) support regional investment initiatives in 
Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan through the Caucasus Fund: Provided 
further, That project-specific transaction costs, including direct and 
indirect costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
associated with services provided to specific investors or potential 
investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
shall not be considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this 
                                heading.

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $50,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall 
be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty commitments 
incurred or made during fiscal years 1999 and 2000: Provided further, 
That such sums shall remain available through fiscal year 2007 for the 
disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 
1999, and through fiscal year 2008 for the disbursement of direct and 
guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That 
in addition, such sums as may be necessary for administrative expenses 
to carry out the credit program may be derived from amounts available 
for administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance 
programs in the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Noncredit 
Account and merged with said account.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $44,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the Trade and Development 
Agency may receive reimbursements from corporations and other entities 
for the costs of grants for feasibility studies and other project 
planning services, to be deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
account and to be available for obligation until September 30, 2000, for 
necessary expenses under this paragraph: Provided further, That such 
reimbursements shall not cover, or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-153]]

be allocated against, direct or indirect administrative costs of the 
agency.

                 TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, and for other purposes, to remain available until September 30, 
          1999, unless otherwise specified herein, as follows:

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 and 
10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for child survival, 
basic education, assistance to combat tropical and other diseases, and 
related activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, $650,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That this amount shall be made available for such activities as: (1) 
immunization programs; (2) oral rehydration programs; (3) health and 
nutrition programs, and related education programs, which address the 
needs of mothers and children; (4) water and sanitation programs; (5) 
assistance for displaced and orphaned children; (6) programs for the 
prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, tuberculosis, 
HIV/AIDS, polio, malaria and other diseases; and (7) up to $98,000,000 
for basic education programs for children: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available for 
nonproject assistance for health and child survival programs, except 
that funds may be made available for such assistance for ongoing health 
                                programs.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106, and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, title V of the International Security and Development Cooperation 
Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533) and the provisions of section 401 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $1,225,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
under this heading, up to $20,000,000 may be made available for the 
Inter-American Foundation and shall be apportioned directly to that 
Agency: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, up to $11,000,000 may be made available for the African 
Development Foundation and shall be apportioned directly to that agency: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available in this Act nor 
any unobligated balances from prior appropriations may be made available 
to any organization or program which, as determined by the President of 
the United States, supports or participates in the management of a 
program of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
used to pay for the performance of abortion as a method of family 
planning or to motivate or coerce any person

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-154]]

to
practice abortions; and that in order to reduce reliance on abortion in 
developing nations, funds shall be available only to voluntary family 
planning projects which offer, either directly or through referral to, 
or information about access to, a broad range of family planning methods 
and services, and that any such voluntary family planning project shall 
meet the following requirements: (1) service providers or referral 
agents in the project shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or 
other numerical targets, of total number of births, number of family 
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
planning (this provision shall not be construed to include the use of 
quantitative estimates or indicators for budgeting and planning 
purposes), (2) the project shall not include payment of incentives, 
bribes, gratuities, or financial reward to (A) an individual in exchange 
for becoming a family planning acceptor, or (B) program personnel for 
achieving a numerical target or quota of total number of births, number 
of family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of 
family planning, (3) the project shall not deny any right or benefit, 
including the right of access to participate in any program of general 
welfare or the right of access to health care, as a consequence of any 
individual's decision not to accept family planning services, (4) the 
project shall provide family planning acceptors comprehensible 
information on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
including those conditions that might render the use of the method 
inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be consequent to the 
use of the method, (5) the project shall ensure that experimental 
contraceptive drugs and devices and medical procedures are provided only 
in the context of a scientific study in which participants are advised 
of potential risks and benefits; and, not less than 60 days after the 
date on which the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development determines that there has been a violation of 
the requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this 
proviso, or a pattern or practice of violations of the requirements 
contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso, the Administrator shall 
submit to the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, a 
report containing a description of such violation and the corrective 
action taken by the Agency: Provided further, That in awarding grants 
for natural family planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of such 
applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to offer only natural 
family planning; and, additionally, all such applicants shall comply 
with the requirements of the previous proviso: Provided further, That 
for purposes of this or any other Act authorizing or appropriating funds 
for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs, the term 
``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, shall not be 
construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local law, of 
information or counseling about all pregnancy options: Provided further, 
That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing 
statutory prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, of the funds appropriated 
under this heading in this Act, and of the unobligated balances of funds 
previously appropriated
under this heading,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-155]]

$2,500,000 may be transferred to ``International Organizations and 
Programs'' for a contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development (IFAD): Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for any activity 
which is in contravention to the Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna (CITES): Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
for assistance for the central Government of the Republic of South 
Africa, until the Secretary of State reports in writing to the 
appropriate committees of the Congress on the steps being taken by the 
United States Government to work with the Government of the Republic of 
South Africa to negotiate the repeal, suspension, or termination of 
section 15(c) of South Africa's Medicines and Related Substances Control 
Amendment Act No. 90 of 1997: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading that are made available for assistance 
programs for displaced and orphaned children and victims of war, not to 
exceed $25,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used to monitor and provide oversight of such programs: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than $1,500,000 should be made available for agriculture programs 
in Laos: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading not less than $500,000 should be made available for support of 
the United States Telecommunications Training Institute: Provided 
further, That, of the funds made available by this Act for the 
``Microenterprise Initiative'' (including any local currencies made 
available for the purposes of the Initiative), not less than 50 percent 
of the funds used for microcredit should be made available for support 
of programs providing loans of less than $300 to very poor people, 
particularly women, or for institutional support of organizations 
                 primarily engaged in making such loans.

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
shall be made available for Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, 
administrative support of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, 
and measures aimed at reunification of the island and designed to reduce 
tensions and promote peace and cooperation between the two communities 
                               on Cyprus.

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $6,500,000 shall be 
made available to support democracy activities in Burma, democracy and 
humanitarian activities along the Burma-Thailand border, and for Burmese 
student groups and other organizations located outside Burma: Provided, 
That funds made available for Burma-related activities under this 
heading may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law: Provided further, That the provision of such funds shall be made 
available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-156]]

    None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available for 
activities or programs for Cambodia until the Secretary of State 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
Government of Cambodia has: (1) thoroughly and credibly resolved all 
election-related disputes and complaints filed by all political parties 
to the National Election Commission and the Constitutional Council; (2) 
discontinued all political violence and intimidation of journalists and 
members of opposition parties; and (3) been formed through credible, 
democratic elections: Provided, That the restrictions under this heading 
shall not apply to demining or activities administered by 
nongovernmental organizations: Provided further, That such funds shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $75,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Indonesia: Provided, That of this 
amount, not less than $15,000,000 should be made available for 
activities administered by the Office of Transition Initiatives: 
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading 
up to $25,000,000 may be derived from funds that are available for 
obligation pursuant to section 511 of this Act or any comparable 
                            provision of law.

    None of <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151u note.>> the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act for development assistance may be 
made available to any United States private and voluntary organization, 
except any cooperative development organization, which obtains less than 
20 percent of its total annual funding for international activities from 
sources other than the United States Government: Provided, That the 
Administrator of the Agency for International Development may, on a 
case-by-case basis, waive the restriction contained in this paragraph, 
after taking into account the effectiveness of the overseas development 
activities of the organization, its level of volunteer support, its 
financial viability and stability, and the degree of its dependence for 
its financial support on the agency: Provided further, That section 
123(g) of the Foreign <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151u and note.>> Assistance Act of 
1961 and the paragraph entitled ``Private and Voluntary Organizations'' 
in title II of the Foreign Assistance and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1985 (as enacted in Public Law 98-473) are hereby 
repealed.

    Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under title II of 
this Act should be made available to private and voluntary organizations 
at a level which is at least equivalent to the level provided in fiscal 
year 1995. Such private and voluntary organizations shall include those 
which operate on a not-for-profit basis, receive contributions from 
private sources, receive voluntary support from the public and are 
deemed to be among the most cost-effective and successful providers of 
development assistance.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-157]]

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $200,000,000, to remain 
                        available until expended.

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,500,000, as 
authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended: Provided, That such
 costs shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That guarantees of loans made under this 
heading in support of microenterprise activities may guarantee up to 70 
percent of the principal amount of any such loans notwithstanding 
section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out programs under this heading, 
$500,000, all of which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
        heading shall remain available until September 30, 2000.

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of guaranteed loans authorized by sections 221 and 222 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including the cost of guaranteed 
loans designed to promote the urban and environmental policies and 
objectives of part I of such Act, $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize loan 
principal, 100 per centum of which shall be guaranteed, pursuant to the 
authority of such sections. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out guaranteed loan programs, $5,000,000, all of which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for Operating Expenses 
of the Agency for International Development: Provided further, That 
commitments to guarantee loans under this heading may be entered into 
notwithstanding the second and third sentences of section 
222(a) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2183<plus-minus><plus-minus>. payment to the 
foreign service retirement and disability fund>> of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, and the third and fourth sentences of section 
                    223(j) of such Act are repealed.

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
 Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $44,552,000.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$479,950,000: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act 
for programs administered by the Agency for International Development 
may be used to finance printing costs of any report or study (except 
feasibility, design, or evaluation reports

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-158]]

or studies) in excess of $25,000 without the approval of the 
      Administrator of the Agency or the Administrator's designee.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$30,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000, which sum 
shall be available for the Office of the Inspector General of the Agency 
for International Development.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,367,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $1,080,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1998, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $775,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance shall be provided 
with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic 
reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in previous 
fiscal years: Provided further, That in exercising the authority to 
provide cash transfer assistance for Israel, the President shall ensure 
that the level of such assistance does not cause an adverse impact on 
the total level of nonmilitary exports from the United States to such 
country: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $150,000,000 should be made available for 
assistance for Jordan: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be used to support 
                        victims of the Holocaust.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $19,600,000, which shall 
be available for the United States contribution to the International 
Fund for Ireland and shall be made available in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 (Public Law 
99-415): Provided, That such amount shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and activities: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading shall 
               remain available until September 30, 2000.

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support
 for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $430,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000, which shall be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for economic assistance and 
for related programs for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-159]]

    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained in 
that Act for the use of economic assistance.
    (c) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for new housing construction or repair or reconstruction of 
existing housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless directly related to 
the efforts of United States troops to promote peace in said country.
    (d) With regard to funds appropriated under this heading for the 
economic revitalization program in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and local 
currencies generated by such funds (including the conversion of funds 
appropriated under this heading into currency used by Bosnia and 
Herzegovina as local currency and local currency returned or repaid 
under such program)--
            (1) the Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans 
        prior to the obligation and expenditure of funds for such 
        purposes, and prior to the use of funds that have been returned 
        or repaid to any lending facility or grantee; and
            (2) the provisions of section 533 of this Act shall apply.

    (e) The President is authorized to withhold funds appropriated under 
this heading made available for economic revitalization programs in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, if he determines and certifies to the Committees 
on Appropriations that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not 
complied with article III of annex 1-A of the General Framework 
Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the withdrawal 
of foreign forces, and that intelligence cooperation on training, 
investigations, and related activities between Iranian officials and 
Bosnian officials has not been terminated.
    (f) Not to exceed $200,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
    (g) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior appropriations 
Acts that are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund may be 
deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the Fund's 
disbursement of such funds for program purposes. The Fund may retain for 
such program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without 
returning such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without 
further appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for 
Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make 
               timely payment for projects and activities.

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 11 
of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM Support 
Act, for assistance for the New Independent States of the former Soviet 
Union and for related programs, $801,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That the provisions of such chapter shall 
apply to funds appropriated by this paragraph: Provided further, That 
such sums as may be necessary may be transferred to the Export-Import 
Bank of the United States for the cost of any financing under the 
Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 for activities for the New Independent 
States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-160]]

    (b) Funds appropriated under title II of this Act, including funds 
appropriated under this heading, should be made available for assistance 
for Mongolia at a level which is at least equivalent to the level 
provided in fiscal year 1998: Provided, That funds made available for 
assistance for Mongolia may be made available in accordance with the 
purposes and utilizing the authorities provided in chapter 11 of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c)(1) Of the funds appropriated under this heading that are 
allocated for assistance for the Government of Russia, 50 percent shall 
be withheld from obligation until the President determines and certifies 
in writing to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
Russia has terminated implementation of arrangements to provide Iran 
with technical expertise, training, technology, or equipment necessary 
to develop a nuclear reactor, related nuclear research facilities or 
programs, or ballistic missile capability.
    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) assistance may be provided for the 
Government of Russia if the President determines and certifies to the 
Committees on Appropriations that making such funds available: (A) is 
vital to the national security interest of the United States; and (B) 
that the Government of Russia is taking meaningful steps to limit major 
supply contracts and to curtail the transfer of technology and 
technological expertise related to activities referred to in paragraph 
(1).
    (d) Not more than 30 percent of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for assistance for any country in the 
region.

    (e) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$228,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for the Southern 
Caucasus region: Provided, That of the funds made available for the 
Southern Caucasus region, 17.5 percent should be used for reconstruction 
and other activities relating to the peaceful resolution of conflicts 
within the region, especially those in the vicinity of Abkhazia and 
Nagorno-Karabakh: Provided further, That if the Secretary of State after 
May 30, 1999, determines and reports to the relevant committees of 
Congress that the full amount of funds that may be made available under 
the first proviso cannot be effectively utilized, the amount provided 
may be used for other purposes under this heading: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided under this subsection, 37 percent shall be 
made available for assistance for Georgia and 35 percent shall be made 
available for assistance for Armenia: Provided further, That of funds 
made available for Armenia, not less than 12 percent shall be made 
available for an endowment for the American University in Armenia.
    (f) Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of Public 
        Law 104-201;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his or 
        her official capacity;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-161]]

            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

    (g) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$195,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine: 
Provided, That not less than $25,000,000 of such funds should be made 
available for nuclear reactor safety programs, of which not less than 
$1,000,000 shall be made available for personnel security initiatives at 
all nuclear reactor installations: Provided further, That 50 percent of 
the amount made available in this subsection, exclusive of funds made 
available for nuclear safety and law enforcement reforms, shall be 
withheld from obligation and expenditure until the Secretary of State 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that Ukraine has undertaken 
significant economic reforms additional to those achieved in fiscal year 
1998, and include: (1) reform and effective enforcement of commercial 
and tax codes; and (2) continued progress on resolution of complaints by 
United States investors: Provided further, That the report in the 
previous proviso shall be provided 120 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act: Provided further, That for the purposes of the agreement 
with Ukraine submitted to the Congress under section 123 of the Atomic 
Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the requirement to submit the agreement 
and related documents to the Congress and the appropriate congressional 
committees for the periods described in that Act shall be deemed 
satisfied upon the enactment of this Act.

    (h) The Coordinator for Assistance to the New Independent States of 
the Former Soviet Union shall inform the Committees on Appropriations 
prior to the obligation of funds made available under this heading for a 
United States national lab to administer nuclear safety activities if 
the management costs exceed 9 percent of the costs associated with the 
program or activity.

                           Independent Agency

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $240,000,000, including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for use 
outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000.

                           Department of State

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $261,000,000: Provided, That none of the funds 
under this heading may be made available to establish or operate an 
International Law Enforcement Academy for the Western Hemisphere outside 
the United States: Provided further, That

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-162]]

in addition to any funds previously made available for an International 
Law Enforcement Academy for the Western Hemisphere, not less than 
$5,000,000 should be made available to establish and operate the 
International Law Enforcement Academy for the Western Hemisphere at the 
deBremond Training Center in Roswell, New Mexico: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 1999, the Department of State may also use the 
authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without 
regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property from an agency of 
the United States Government for the purpose of providing it to a 
foreign country under chapter 8 of part I of that Act subject to the 
  regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross, assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the International Organization for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses of 
personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 5, 
United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$640,000,000: Provided, That not more than $13,000,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses: Provided further, That not less 
than $70,000,000 shall be made available for refugees from the former 
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and other refugees resettling in Israel.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $30,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 2(c)(2) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 which would limit 
    the amount of funds which could be appropriated for this purpose.

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and 
related programs and activities, $198,000,000, to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
for anti-terrorism assistance, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act 
for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for demining 
activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
activities implemented through nongovernmental and international 
organizations, section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a 
voluntary contribution to the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-163]]

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and a voluntary contribution 
to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO), and for 
a United States contribution to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban 
Treaty Preparatory Commission: Provided, That the Secretary of State 
shall inform the Committees on Appropriations at least twenty days prior 
to the obligation of funds for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty 
Preparatory Commission: Provided further, That of this amount not to 
exceed $15,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be made 
available for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation and disarmament: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the New Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the United 
States to do so: Provided further, That such funds shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading not 
less than $35,000,000 should be made available for demining, clearance 
of unexploded ordnance, and related activities: Provided further, That 
of the funds made available for demining and related activities, not to 
exceed $500,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used for expenses related to the operation and 
management of the demining program: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for the 
International Atomic Energy Agency only if the Secretary of State 
determines (and so reports to the Congress) that Israel is not being 
denied its right to participate in the activities of that Agency.

                       Department of the Treasury

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of modifying direct loans and loan guarantees, as the 
President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the International Affairs 
Budget Function 150, including the cost of selling, reducing, or 
canceling amounts, through debt buybacks and swaps, owed to the United 
States as a result of concessional loans made to eligible Latin American 
and Caribbean countries, pursuant to part IV of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961; of modifying concessional credit agreements with least 
developed countries, as authorized under section 411 of the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended; and 
concessional loans, guarantees and credit agreements with any country in 
sub-Saharan Africa, as authorized under section 572 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1989 (Public Law 100-461); and of modifying any obligation, or portion 
of such obligation for Latin American countries to pay for purchases of 
United States agricultural commodities guaranteed by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation under export credit guarantee programs authorized 
pursuant to section 5(f ) of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter 
Act of June 29, 1948, as amended, section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act 
of 1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or section 202 of the 
Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (Public Law 95-501), 
$33,000,000, to remain available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-164]]

until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,900,000 of such funds 
may be used for implementation of improvements in the foreign credit 
reporting system of the United States Government: Provided further, That 
the authority provided by section 572 of Public Law 100-461 may be 
exercised only with respect to countries that are eligible to borrow 
from the International Development Association, but not from the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred 
to as ``IDA-only'' countries: Provided further, That the authorities and 
appropriation under this heading shall also satisfy the requirement of 
section 808(a)(3) of part V of the Foreign Assistance Act, as amended, 
for the purpose of debt buybacks and swaps which incur no costs (as 
defined under section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990) 
                          in fiscal year 1999.

    For necessary expenses to carry out Department of the Treasury 
international affairs technical assistance activities, $1,500,000, to 
remain available until expended, which shall be available, pursuant to 
section 589 of this Act, for economic technical assistance and for 
                            related programs.

      For the United States Community Adjustment and Investment Program 
authorized by section 543 of the North American Free Trade Agreement 
Implementation Act, $10,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That the Secretary may transfer such funds to the North 
American Development Bank and/or to one or more Federal agencies for the 
purpose of enabling the Bank or such Federal agencies to assist in 
carrying out the program by providing technical assistance, grants, 
loans, loan guarantees, and other financial subsidies endorsed by the 
inter-agency finance committee established by section 7 of Executive 
Order 12916: Provided further, That no portion of such funds may be 
transferred to the Bank unless the Secretary shall have first entered 
into an agreement with the Bank that provides that any such funds may 
not be used for the Bank's administrative expenses: Provided further, 
That any funds transferred to the Bank under this head will be in 
addition to the 10 percent of the paid-in capital paid to the Bank by 
the United States referred to in section 543 of the Act: Provided 
further, That any funds transferred to any Federal agency under this 
head will be in addition to amounts otherwise provided to such agency: 
Provided further, That any funds transferred to an agency under this 
head shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the account to 
which transferred.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $50,000,000 of which up to 
$1,000,000 may remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-165]]

training may be provided under this heading may include civilians who 
are not members of a government whose participation would contribute to 
improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the military, or 
respect for human rights: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading for grant financed military education and training 
for Indonesia and Guatemala may only be available for expanded 
international military education and training and funds made available 
for Guatemala may only be provided through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
to support grant financed military education and training at the School 
of the Americas unless the Secretary of Defense certifies that the 
instruction and training provided by the School of the Americas is fully 
consistent with training and doctrine, particularly with respect to the 
observance of human rights, provided by the Department of Defense to 
United States military students at Department of Defense institutions 
   whose primary purpose is to train United States military personnel.

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,330,000,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,860,000,000 shall be available for grants only 
for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be made available for 
grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds appropriated by 
this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within thirty days of 
enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1998, whichever is later: 
Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of Israel 
requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for 
Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and the United 
States, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which not less 
than $490,000,000 shall be available for the procurement in Israel of 
defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph, not less than $45,000,000 should be available for assistance 
for Jordan: Provided further, That during fiscal year 1999 the President 
is authorized to, and shall, direct drawdowns of defense articles from 
the stocks of the Department of Defense, defense services of the 
Department of Defense, and military education and training of an 
aggregate value of not less than $25,000,000 under the authority of this 
proviso for Jordan for the purposes of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961: Provided further, That section 506(c) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply, and section 632(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply, to any such drawdown: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading shall 
be available for any non-NATO country participating in the Partnership 
for Peace Program except through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph, not less than $7,000,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for Tunisia: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 1999, the President is authorized to, and shall, direct the 
drawdowns of defense articles from the stocks of the Department of 
Defense, defense services of the Department of Defense, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-166]]

military education and training of an aggregate value of not less than 
$5,000,000 under the authority of this proviso for Tunisia for the 
purposes of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and any amount 
so directed shall count toward meeting the earmark in the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That section 506(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 shall apply and section 632(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 shall not apply to any such drawdown: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be nonrepayable 
notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph 
(5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a).

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct loans authorized by section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act as follows: cost of direct loans, $20,000,000: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans of not to exceed $167,000,000.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: Provided, 
That all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of section 515 of 
this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for assistance for Sudan and Liberia: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for demining, the 
clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities, and may 
include activities implemented through nongovernmental and international 
organizations: Provided further, That none of the funds under this 
heading shall be available for assistance for Guatemala: Provided 
further, That only those countries for which assistance was justified 
for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 
1989 congressional presentation for security assistance programs may 
utilize funds made available under this heading for procurement of 
defense articles, defense services or design and construction services 
that are not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export 
Control Act: Provided further, That, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, funds made available 
under this heading for the cost of direct loans may also be used to 
supplement the funds available under this heading for grants, and funds 
made available under this heading for grants may also be used to 
supplement the funds available under this heading for the cost of direct 
loans: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment 
for defense articles and services: Provided further, That not more than 
$29,910,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the United 
States, for the general costs of administering military

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-167]]

assistance and sales: Provided further, That not more than $340,000,000 
of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of 
Defense during fiscal year 1999 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms 
Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded only 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $76,500,000: Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or expended 
except as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

               TITLE IV--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Global Environment Facility (GEF), $192,500,000 to 
remain available until expended for contributions previously due: 
Provided, That such funds shall be subject to the regular notification 
             procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    For payment to the International Development Association (IDA) by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $800,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of these funds may be obligated or 
expended until the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that a procedure 
has been established for the Comptroller General of the United States to 
be provided full access to: (1) the financial and related records of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and IDA for the 
purposes of conducting audits of current loans and financial assistance 
provided by these institutions; and (2) management personnel manuals, 
procedures, and policy guidelines: Provided further, That following the 
review conducted in the previous proviso, the Comptroller General shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations on the results of the audit 
and recommendations to improve institutional financial and personnel 
procedures, especially regarding the protection of individuals alleging 
mismanagement, fraud, or abuses: Provided further, That at least ten 
days prior to the obligation of funds appropriated under this heading 
the Secretary of Treasury shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations of his intent to obligate such funds.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-168]]

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, for the United States share of the paid-in share 
         portion of the increase in capital stock, $25,610,667.

    For payment to the Inter-American Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, for the United States share of the increase in resources for 
the Fund for Special Operations, $21,152,000, to remain available until 
               expended for contributions previously due.

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
                      not to exceed $1,503,718,910.

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Fund, $50,000,000 to remain available until expended 
                    for contributions previously due.

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $13,221,596, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    The United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital portion 
of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount not to 
                          exceed $647,858,204.

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increases in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended (Public Law 89-
369), $210,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
    $187,000,000 shall be available for contributions previously due.

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the African Development Fund, 
$128,000,000, to remain available
until expended, of which $88,300,000 shall be available for 
contributions previously due.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-169]]

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $35,778,717, for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, to remain 
                        available until expended.

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $123,237,803.

                International Organizations and Programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $187,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available for the United Nations Population 
Fund (UNFPA): Provided further, That not less than $5,000,000 should be 
made available to the World Food Program: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading, may be provided to the 
Climate Stabilization Fund until fifteen days after the Department of 
State provides a report to the Committees on Foreign Relations and 
Appropriations in the Senate and the Committees on International 
Relations and Appropriations in the House of Representatives detailing 
the number of Fund employees and associated salaries and the fiscal year 
1998 and 1999 Fund activities, programs or projects and associated 
costs: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development 
Organization (KEDO) or the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 percent of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
                     the last month of availability.

    Sec. 502. Notwithstanding section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, none of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be used 
to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-170]]

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
               currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal year.

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available by this Act for general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training '', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
              representation and entertainment allowances.

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'') pursuant to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, except for purposes of nuclear 
safety, to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology.

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Iran, 
Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this section, the 
prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-171]]

include direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-
                       Import Bank or its agents.

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance to any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That assistance may be 
resumed to such country if the President determines and reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the termination of 
    assistance a democratically elected government has taken office.

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in this 
Act, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under title II of this Act are, if deobligated, hereby 
continued available for the same period as the respective appropriations 
under such headings or until September 30, 1999, whichever is later, and 
for the same general purpose, and for countries within the same region 
as originally obligated: Provided, That the Appropriations Committees of 
both Houses of the Congress are notified 15 days in advance of the 
reobligation of such funds in accordance with regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 23 
of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under this 
Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be used in 
                            fiscal year 1999.

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1, 8, and 11 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, and funds provided under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-172]]

States'', shall remain available until expended if such funds are 
initially obligated before the expiration of their respective periods of 
availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of payments 
or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the report required by section 653(a) 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate for each country, 
to the extent known at the time of submission of such report, those 
funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of payment and 
                    economic policy reform purposes.

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United States 
of principal or interest on any loan made to such country by the United 
States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated under this 
Act: Provided, That this section and section 620(q) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds made available in this 
Act or during the current fiscal year for Nicaragua, Brazil, Liberia, 
and for any narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru 
authorized by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export 
                              Control Act.

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant
to this Act to the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation shall be obligated or expended to finance any 
loan, any assistance or any other financial commitments for establishing 
or expanding production of any commodity for export by any country other 
than the United States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on 
world markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is expected 
to become operative and if the assistance will cause substantial injury 
to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity: 
Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import 
Bank if in the judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to 
industry and employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations.

    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to carry 
out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be 
available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, variety 
improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or 
training in connection with the growth or production in a foreign 
country of an agricultural commodity for export which would compete with 
a similar commodity grown or produced in the United States: Provided, 
That this subsection shall not prohibit--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-173]]

            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact in the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
                               American producers.

    Sec. 514. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262h.>> (a) The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall instruct the United States Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International 
Development Association, the International Finance Corporation, the 
Inter-American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the 
Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Investment Corporation, the 
North American Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the African Development Bank, and the African 
Development Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to 
oppose any assistance by these institutions, using funds appropriated or 
made available pursuant to this Act, for the production or extraction of 
any commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world 
markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United 
States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

    (b) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the United States 
executive directors of international financial institutions listed in 
subsection (a) of this section to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to support the purchase of American produced agricultural 
commodities with funds appropriated or made available pursuant to this 
                                  Act.

    Sec. 515. (a) For the purposes of providing the executive branch 
with the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Child Survival and Disease Programs 
Fund'', ``Development assistance'', ``International Organizations and 
Programs'', ``Trade and Development Agency'', ``International narcotics 
control and law enforcement'', ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the 
Baltic States'', ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the 
Former Soviet Union'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Peacekeeping 
operations'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency for International 
Development'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency for International 
Development Office of Inspector General'', ``Nonproliferation, anti-
terrorism, demining and related programs'', ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', ``International military education and training '', ``Peace 
Corps'', ``Migration and refugee assistance'', shall be available for 
obligation for activities, programs, projects, type of materiel 
assistance, countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of 
the amount justified to the Appropriations Committees for obligation 
under any of these specific headings unless the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are previously notified 15 days in 
advance: Provided, That the President shall not enter into any 
commitment of funds appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, 
other than conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined 
to be aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-174]]

previously justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the 
quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations 
are notified 15 days in advance of such commitment: Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, 
program, or project under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 of less than 10 percent of the amount previously justified 
to the Congress for obligation for such activity, program, or project 
for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That the requirements of 
this section or any similar provision of this Act or any other Act, 
including any prior Act requiring notification in accordance with the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may 
be waived if failure to do so would
pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided further, 
That in case of any such waiver, notification to the Congress, or the 
appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than three days after taking the 
action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.

    (b) Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
             procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 516. Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000: 
Provided,That <<NOTE: 22 USC 2227. new independent states of the former 
soviet union>> section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end thereof ``, or at the 
discretion of the President, Communist countries listed in section 
                          620(f) of this Act''.

    Sec. 517. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' 
shall be made available for assistance for a Government of the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union--
            (1) unless that Government is making progress in 
        implementing comprehensive economic reforms based on market 
        principles, private ownership, respect for commercial contracts, 
        and equitable treatment of foreign private investment; and
            (2) if that Government applies or transfers United States 
        assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
        seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or 
        ventures.

Assistance may be furnished without regard to this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (b) <<NOTE: 22 USC 5814 note.>>  None of the funds appropriated 
under the heading ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the 
Former Soviet Union''

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-175]]

shall be made available for assistance for a Government of the New 
Independent States of
the former Soviet Union if that government directs any action in 
violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any 
other new independent state, such as those violations included in the 
Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made available 
without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States.

    (c) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be 
made available for any state to enhance its military capability: 
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to demilitarization, 
demining or nonproliferation programs.
    (d) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f) Funds appropriated in this or prior appropriations Acts that are 
or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund in the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union may be deposited by such 
Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such 
funds by the Fund for program purposes. The Fund may retain for such 
program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without returning 
such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without further 
appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for Enterprise Funds 
shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment 
for projects and activities.
    (g) In issuing new task orders, entering into contracts, or making 
grants, with funds appropriated in this Act or prior appropriations Acts 
under the heading ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the 
Former Soviet Union'' for projects or activities that have as one of 
their primary purposes the fostering of private sector development, the 
Coordinator for United States Assistance to the New Independent States 
and the implementing agency shall encourage the participation of and 
give significant weight to contractors and grantees who propose 
investing a significant amount of their own resources (including 
volunteer services and in-kind contributions) in such projects and 
activities.
    (h)(1) Withholding of Assistance.--None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act may be made available for assistance for the Government of the 
Russian Federation, after 180 days from the date of enactment of this 
Act, until agreement has been reached that assistance provided with 
funds appropriated by this Act will not be subject to customs duties or 
that legislation has been enacted and is in force that exempts such 
assistance from being subject to customs duties.
    (2) Waiver.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), assistance may be 
provided for the Government of the Russian Federation if the President 
determines that significant progress has been made on reaching an 
agreement, or enacting and enforcing legislation, that meets the 
objectives of this section to provide exemption from customs duties for 
assistance furnished under this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-176]]

    Sec. 518. None of
the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of 
abortions as a method of family planning or to motivate or coerce any 
person to practice abortions. None of the funds made available to carry 
out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
used to pay for the performance of involuntary sterilization as a method 
of family planning or to coerce or provide any financial incentive to 
any person to undergo sterilizations. None of the funds made available 
to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
may be used to pay for any biomedical research which relates in whole or 
in part, to methods of, or the performance of, abortions or involuntary 
sterilization as a means of family planning. None of the funds made 
available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, may be obligated or expended for any country or organization if 
the President certifies that the use of these funds by any such country 
or organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to lobby for or against 
                                abortion.

    Sec. 519. Section 105 of Public Law 104-164 (110 Stat. 1427) is 
 amended by striking ``1996 and 1997'' and inserting ``1999 and 2000''.

    Sec. 520. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, Honduras, Haiti, Liberia, Pakistan, 
Serbia, Sudan, or the Democratic Republic of Congo except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    Sec. 521. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all appropriations and authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as: (1) 
justified to the Congress; or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 30 days of enactment of this Act, as required by 
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-177]]

    Sec. 522. Up to $10,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for family planning, health, child survival, basic 
education, AIDS and other infectious diseases, may be used to reimburse 
United States Government agencies, agencies of State governments, 
institutions of higher learning, and private and voluntary organizations 
for the full cost of individuals (including for the personal services of 
such individuals) detailed or assigned to, or contracted by, as the case 
may be, the Agency for International Development for the purpose of 
carrying out family planning activities, child survival, and basic 
education activities, and activities relating to research on, and the 
prevention, treatment and control of acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
or other diseases in developing countries: Provided, That funds 
appropriated by this Act that are made available for child survival 
activities or disease programs including activities relating to research 
on, and the prevention, treatment and control of, acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome may be made available notwithstanding any provision 
of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under title II of this Act may be made available 
pursuant to section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 if a 
primary purpose of the assistance is for child survival and related 
programs: Provided further, That funds appropriated by this Act that are 
made available for family planning activities may be made available 
notwithstanding section 512 of this Act and section 620(q) of the 
                     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated
to finance indirectly any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, 
Libya, Iran, Syria, North Korea, or the People's Republic of China, 
unless the President of the United States certifies that the withholding 
of these funds is contrary to the national interest of the United 
                                 States.

    Sec. 524. Section 61(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is 
amended <<NOTE: 22 USC 2796. NOTIFICATION ON EXCESS DEFENSE 
EQUIPMENT>> by striking out ``1998'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``the 
                         current fiscal year''.

    Sec. 525. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
to the same extent and under the same conditions as are other committees 
pursuant to subsection (c) of that section: Provided, That before 
issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles under the Arms 
Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such Committees 
shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of such defense 
articles.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-178]]

    Sec. 526. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 
         of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

    Sec. 527. Notwithstanding any other provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries, funds appropriated by this Act for 
``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available to provide general 
support for nongovernmental organizations located outside the People's 
Republic of China that have as their primary purpose fostering democracy 
in that country, and for activities of nongovernmental organizations 
located outside the People's Republic of China to foster democracy in 
that country: Provided, That none of the funds made available for 
activities to foster democracy in the People's Republic of China may be 
    made available for assistance to the government of that country.

    Sec. 528. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for bilateral assistance under any heading of this Act and 
funds appropriated under any such heading in a provision of law enacted 
prior to enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
        group which has committed an act of international terrorism, or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.

    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to a 
country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
publication. COMMERCIAL LEASING OF DEFENSE ARTICLES>> The President 
shall publish each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least fifteen 
days before the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the waiver (including the justification for the 
waiver) in accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
                      Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 529. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2763 note. COMPETITIVE 
INSURANCE>> Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export Control Act may be 
used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt and NATO and major non-NATO 
allies for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option 
to purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial 
suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment (other than helicopters 
and other types of aircraft having possible civilian application), if 
the President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or 
national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under such 
Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-179]]

    Sec. 530. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, shall 
include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies have a 
fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is necessary 
                             or appropriate.

    Sec. 531. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms Export 
Control Act or chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                                  1961.

    Sec. 532. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts
or local currencies which accrue to that organization as a result of 
economic assistance provided under title II of this Act and any interest 
earned on such investment shall be used for the purpose for which the 
              assistance was provided to that organization.

    Sec. 533. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2362 note.>> (a) Separate Accounts for 
Local Currencies.--(1) If assistance is furnished to the government of a 
foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result 
in the generation of local currencies of that country, the Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development shall--
            (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a separate 
        account established by that government;
            (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
        forth--
                    (i) the amount of the local currencies to be 
                generated, and
                    (ii) the terms and conditions under which the 
                currencies so deposited may be utilized, consistent with 
                this section; and
            (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
        responsibilities of the Agency for International Development and 
        that government to monitor and account for deposits into and 
        disbursements from the separate account.

    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local currencies, 
shall be used only--
            (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
        part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                    (i) project and sector assistance activities, or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-180]]

                    (ii) debt and deficit financing, or
            (B) for the administrative requirements of the United States 
        Government.

    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent 
of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from 
the separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are used 
for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Conforming Amendments.--The tenth and eleventh provisos 
contained under the heading ``Sub-Saharan Africa, Development 
Assistance'' as included in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989 and sections 531(d) and 
609 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are <<NOTE: 22 USC 2346, 
2359.>>  repealed.

    (6) Reporting Requirement.--The Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall report on an annual basis as part of the 
justification documents submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on 
the use of local currencies for the administrative requirements of the 
United States Government as authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and such 
report shall include the amount of local currency (and United States 
dollar equivalent) used and/or to be used for such purpose in each 
applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is made 
available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 or 10 
of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector assistance, that 
country shall be required to maintain such funds in a separate account 
and not commingle them with any other funds.

    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee 
of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (H. Report No. 98-
1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least fifteen days prior to obligating any 
such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed description 
of how the funds proposed to be made available will be used, with a 
discussion of the United States interests that will be served by the 
assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the economic 
policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-181]]

    Sec. 534. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or 
while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, the North 
American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
                              Development.

    Sec. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>> 535. None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to carry out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part 
I, relating to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms 
Export Control Act may be used to provide assistance to any country that 
is not in compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions 
against Iraq unless the President determines and so certifies to the 
Congress that--
            (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the 
        United States;
            (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people 
        in that country; or
            (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
         assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.

    Sec. 536. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2762 note. authorities for the peace corps, 
the inter-american foundation, the african development foundation and 
the international fund for agricultural development>> Direct costs 
associated with meeting a foreign customer's additional or unique 
requirements will continue to be allowable under contracts under section 
22(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. Loadings applicable to such direct 
costs shall be permitted at the same rates applicable to procurement of 
   like items purchased by the Department of Defense for its own use.

    Sec. 537. (a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act, or the African

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-182]]

 Development Foundation Act. The appropriate agency shall promptly 
report to the Committees on Appropriations whenever it is conducting 
activities or is proposing to conduct activities in a country for which 
assistance is prohibited.
    (b) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, limitations on the 
availability of funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this or any other Act, including prior appropriations Acts, shall not 
be construed to be applicable to the International Fund for Agricultural 
                              Development.

    Sec. 538. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
            (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or developing 
        in a foreign country any export processing zone or designated 
        area in which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, and safety 
        laws of that country do not apply, in part or in whole, to 
        activities carried out within that zone or area, unless the 
        President determines and certifies that such assistance is not 
        likely to cause a loss of jobs within the United States; or
            (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes 
        to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, 
        as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of 
        workers in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That in recognition that the 
        application of this subsection should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, the 
        provisions of this subsection shall not preclude assistance for 
        the informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
                    enterprise, and smallholder agriculture.

    Sec. 539. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>> (a) Restrictions.--None of the 
funds in this or any other Act may be made available to modify or remove 
any sanction, prohibition or requirement with respect to Serbia-
Montenegro unless the President first submits to the Congress a 
certification described in subsection (c).

    (b) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive directors of the 
international financial institutions to work in opposition to, and vote 
against, any extension by such institutions of any financial or 
technical assistance or grants of any kind to the government of Serbia-
Montenegro, unless the President first submits to the Congress a 
certification described in subsection (c).
    (c) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a certification that--
            (1) there is substantial improvement in the human rights 
        situation in Kosova;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-183]]

            (2) international human rights observers are allowed to 
        return to Kosova;
            (3) Serbian, Serbian-Montenegrin federal government 
        officials, and representatives of the ethnic Albanian community 
        in Kosova have agreed on and begun implementation of a 
        negotiated settlement on the future status of Kosova; and
            (4) the government of Serbia-Montenegro is fully complying 
        with its obligations as a signatory to the General Framework 
        Agreement for Peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina including fully 
        cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
        Former Yugoslavia.

    (d) Waiver Authority.--The President may waive the application, in 
whole or in part, of subsections (a) and (b) if he certifies in writing 
to the Congress that the waiver is necessary to meet emergency 
humanitarian needs or to advance negotiations toward a peaceful 
settlement of the conflict in Kosova that is acceptable to the parties.
    (e) Exemption for Montenegro.--This section shall not apply to 
                               Montenegro.

    Sec. 540. (a) Funds appropriated in titles I and II of this Act that 
are made available for Afghanistan, Lebanon, Montenegro, and for victims 
of war, displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian assistance 
for Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of Kosova, may 
be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation activities 
and, subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, energy programs aimed at reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions: Provided, That such assistance shall be subject to sections 
116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) The Agency for International Development may employ personal 
services contractors, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of administering programs for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (d)(1) Waiver.--The President may waive the provisions of section 
1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President determines and certifies in 
writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President 
pro tempore of the Senate that it is important to the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (2) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
paragraph (1) shall be effective for no more than a period of six months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond twelve months after enactment of 
                                this Act.

    Sec. 541. It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and 
        publicly renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-184]]

            (2) the decision by the Arab League in 1997 to reinstate the 
        boycott against Israel was deeply troubling and disappointing;
            (3) the Arab League should immediately rescind its decision 
        on the boycott and its members should develop normal relations 
        with their neighbor Israel; and
            (4) the President should--
                    (A) take more concrete steps to encourage vigorously 
                Arab League countries to renounce publicly the primary 
                boycotts of Israel and the secondary and tertiary 
                boycotts of American firms that have commercial 
                relations with Israel as a confidence-building measure;
                    (B) take into consideration the participation of any 
                recipient country in the primary
boycott of Israel and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American 
firms that have commercial relations with Israel when determining 
whether to sell weapons to said country;
                    (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being 
                taken by the President to bring about a public 
                renunciation of the Arab primary boycott of Israel and 
                the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
                that have commercial relations with Israel and to expand 
                the process of normalizing ties between Arab League 
                countries and Israel; and
                    (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of the 
                United States to enact laws prohibiting businesses from 
                complying with the boycott and penalizing businesses 
                                     that do comply.

    Sec. 542. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act for ``Economic 
Support Fund'', assistance may be provided to strengthen the 
administration of justice in countries in Latin America and the 
Caribbean and in other regions consistent with the provisions of section 
534(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that programs to 
enhance protection of participants in judicial cases may be conducted 
notwithstanding section 660 of that Act.
    (b) Funds made available pursuant to this section may be made 
available notwithstanding section 534(c) and the second and third 
   sentences of section 534(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

    Sec. 543. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
and 11 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for 
Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'': Provided, That the President 
shall take into consideration, in any case in which a restriction on 
assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, whether 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations is in 
the national interest of the United States: Provided further, That 
before using the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-185]]

in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the regular 
notification procedures of those committees, including a description of 
the program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the 
reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing 
in this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or involuntary sterilizations contained in 
this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 1999, restrictions contained 
in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a country shall 
not be construed to restrict assistance under the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and made available 
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance to 
        countries that support international terrorism; or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that violate internationally recognized 
                                  human rights.

    Sec. 544. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked may 
be reprogrammed for other programs
within the same account notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with 
the earmark is made impossible by operation of any provision of this or 
any other Act or, with respect to a country with which the United States 
has an agreement providing the United States with base rights or base 
access in that country, if the President determines that the recipient 
for which funds are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or 
economic cooperation with the United States since enactment of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1991; however, before exercising the authority of 
this subsection with regard to a base rights or base access country 
which has significantly reduced its military or economic cooperation 
with the United States, the President shall consult with, and shall 
provide a written policy justification to the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided, That any such reprogramming shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That assistance that is reprogrammed 
pursuant to this subsection shall be made available under the same terms 
and conditions as originally provided.

    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other Act 
shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the Administrator of 
such agency determines and reports promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a country or a 
significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that such 
earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-186]]

earmarked funds that are continued available for an additional fiscal 
      year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such earmark.

    Sec. 545. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so directs. 
Earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act 
       shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.

    Sec. 546. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of enactment of this Act by the Congress: 
Provided, That not to exceed $750,000 may be made available to carry out 
           the provisions of section 316 of Public Law 96-533.

    Sec. 547. (a) To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided 
under this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.
    (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, all agriculture commodities, equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (c) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
                     subsection (b) by the Congress.

    Sec. 548. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
                    any member of the United Nations.

    Sec. 549. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
       or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 550. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization which 
fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or record 
necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for International 
Development.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-187]]

    Sec. 551. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act or any other 
comparable provision of law. The prohibition under this section with 
respect to a foreign government shall terminate 12 months after that 
government ceases to provide such military equipment. This section 
applies with respect to lethal military equipment provided under a 
contract entered into after October 1, 1997.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of the 
United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance estimated 
to be provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such 
assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance furthers United 
                       States national interests.

    Sec. 552. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a foreign 
country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an amount 
equivalent to 110 percent of the total unpaid fully adjudicated parking 
fines and penalties owed to the District of Columbia by such country as 
of the date of enactment of this Act shall be withheld from obligation 
for such country until the Secretary of State certifies and reports in 
writing to the appropriate congressional committees that such fines and
penalties are fully paid to the government of the District of Columbia.

    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations 
                    of the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 553. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 604(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 
(title VI of Public Law 104-107) or any other legislation to suspend or 
make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the President 
fails to make the certification under section 604(b)(2) of the Middle 
East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or to suspend the prohibition under 
other legislation, funds

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-188]]

appropriated by this Act may not be obligated for assistance for the 
      Palestine Liberation Organization for the West Bank and Gaza.

    Sec. 554. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the President may direct a drawdown 
pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish to deal with such 
violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination required under 
this section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise required 
under section 552(c): Provided further, That sixty days after 
the <<NOTE: 22 USC 2656 note.>> date of enactment of this Act, and every 
one hundred eighty days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit 
a report to the Committees on Appropriations describing the steps the 
United States Government is taking to collect information regarding 
allegations of genocide or other violations of international law in the 
former Yugoslavia and to furnish that information to the United Nations 
War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia: Provided further, That 
the drawdown made under this section for any
tribunal shall not be construed as an endorsement or precedent for the 
establishment of any standing or permanent international criminal 
tribunal or court: Provided further, That funds made available for 
tribunals or commissions other than for Yugoslavia or Rwanda shall be 
made available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
                      Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 555. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, demining 
equipment available to the Agency for International Development and the 
Department of State and used in support of the clearance of landmines 
and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on 
a grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and conditions 
                     as the President may prescribe.

    Sec. 556. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office of 
any department or agency of the United States Government for the purpose 
of conducting official United States Government business with the 
Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor Palestinian 
governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
Principles: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
employees of the United States and officials of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in 
the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of conducting 
official United States Government business with such authority should 
continue to take place in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-189]]

locations other than Jerusalem. As has been true in the past, officers 
and employees of the United States Government may continue to meet in 
Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians (including those who now 
occupy positions in the Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, 
                    and have incidental discussions.

    Sec. 557. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act under the heading ``International Military Education and 
Training '' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for Informational 
Program activities may be obligated or expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages;
            (2) food (other than food provided at a military 
        installation) not provided in conjunction with Informational 
        Program trips where students do not stay at a military 
        installation; or
            (3) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
                  fees at sporting events and amusement parks.

    Sec. 558. Not more than 17 percent of the funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out the provisions of sections 103 through 106 and chapter 
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, that are made 
available for Latin America and the Caribbean region may be made 
available, through bilateral and Latin America and the Caribbean 
regional programs, to provide assistance for any country in such region.

    Sec. 559. (a) Authority To Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms 
        Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation for a Latin 
        American country, to pay for purchases of United States 
        agricultural commodities guaranteed by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation under export credit guarantee programs authorized 
        pursuant to section 5(f ) of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
        Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as amended, section 4(b) of the 
        Food for Peace Act of 1966, as amended (Public Law 89-808), or 
        section 202 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended 
        (Public Law 95-501).

    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt relief ad 
        referendum agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club 
        Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided 
        in advance by appropriations Acts.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-190]]

            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy debt burdens 
        that are eligible to borrow from the International Development 
        Association, but not from the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-
        only'' countries.

    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
        control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security forces) does 
        not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.

    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Debt restructuring ''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for purposes of any 
provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The authority 
provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding section 
              620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

    Sec. 560. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain loans.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may, 
        in accordance with this section, sell to any eligible purchaser 
        any concessional loan or portion thereof made before January 1, 
        1995, pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to the 
        government of any eligible country as defined in section 702(6) 
        of that Act or on receipt of payment from an eligible purchaser, 
        reduce or cancel such loan or portion thereof, only for the 
        purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
                swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country of its own 
                qualified debt, only if the eligible country uses an 
                additional amount of the local currency of the eligible 
                country, equal to not less than 40 percent of the price 
                paid for such debt by such eligible country, or the 
                difference between the price paid for such debt and the 
                face value of such debt, to support activities that link 
                conservation and sustainable use of natural resources 
                with local community development, and child survival and 
                other child development, in a manner consistent with 
                sections 707 through 710 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961, if the sale, reduction, or cancellation would 
                not contravene any term or condition of any prior 
                agreement relating to such loan.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-191]]

            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President shall, in accordance with this 
        section, establish the terms and conditions under which loans 
        may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in section 
        702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall notify the 
        administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of 
        purchasers that the President has determined to be eligible, and 
        shall direct such agency to carry out the sale, reduction, or 
        cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section. Such agency 
        shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the sale, 
        reduction, or cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection shall be 
        available only to the extent that appropriations for the cost of 
        the modification, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance.

    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or 
cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or 
accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the 
President for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, of 
any loan made to an eligible country, the President should consult with 
the country concerning the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or 
canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                    heading ``Debt restructuring ''.

    Sec. 561. (a) Limitation.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
made available for assistance for the central Government of Haiti only 
if the President reports to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
of the Senate that the Government of Haiti--
            (1) has completed privatization of (or placed under long-
        term private management or concession) three major public 
        entities including the completion of all required incorporating 
        documents, the transfer of assets, and the eviction of 
        unauthorized occupants of the land or facility;
            (2) has re-signed or is implementing the bilateral 
        Repatriation Agreement with the United States and in the 
        preceding six months that the central Government of Haiti is 
        cooperating with the United States in halting illegal emigration 
        from Haiti;
            (3) is conducting thorough investigations of extrajudicial 
        and political killings and has made substantial progress in 
        bringing to justice a person or persons responsible for one or 
        more extrajudicial or political killings in Haiti, and is

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-192]]

        cooperating with United States authorities and with United 
        States-funded technical advisors to the Haitian National Police 
        in such investigations;
            (4) has taken action to remove from the Haitian National 
        Police, national palace and residential guard, ministerial 
        guard, and any other public security entity or unit of Haiti 
        those individuals who are credibly alleged to have engaged in or 
        conspired to conceal gross violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights or credibly alleged to have engaged in 
        or conspired to engage in narcotics trafficking; and
            (5) has ratified or is implementing the maritime counter-
        narcotics agreements signed in October 1997.

    (b) Availability of Electoral Assistance.--The limitation in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act that 
are made available to support elections in Haiti if the President 
reports to the Congress that the central Government of Haiti:
            (1) has achieved a transparent settlement of the contested 
        April 1997 elections; and
            (2) has made concrete progress on the constitution of a 
        credible and competent provisional electoral
council that is acceptable to a broad spectrum of political parties and 
civic groups.

    (c) Exceptions.--The limitations in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
not apply to the provision of--
            (1) counter-narcotics assistance, support for the Haitian 
        National Police's Special Investigations Unit and anti-
        corruption programs, the International Criminal Investigative 
        Assistance Program, and assistance in support of Haitian customs 
        and maritime officials;
            (2) food assistance management and support;
            (3) assistance for urgent humanitarian needs, such as 
        medical and other supplies and services in support of community 
        health services, schools, and orphanages; and
            (4) not more than $3,000,000 for the development and support 
        of political parties and civic groups.

    (d) Waiver.--At any time after 150 days from the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State may waive the requirements contained 
in subsection (a)(1) if she reports to the Committees specified in 
subsection (a) that the Government of Haiti has satisfied the 
requirements of subsection (a)(1) with regard to one major public entity 
and has satisfied the remaining requirements of subsection (a).
    (e) Reports.--The Secretary of State shall provide to the Committees 
specified in subsection (a) on a quarterly basis--
            (1) in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, a report 
        on the status and number of United States personnel deployed in 
        and around Haiti on Department of Defense, Drug Enforcement 
        Administration, and United Nations missions, including displays 
        by functional or operational assignment for such personnel and 
        the cost to the United States of these operations; and
            (2) the monthly reports, prepared during the previous 
        quarter, of the Organization of American States/United Nations 
        International Civilian Mission to Haiti (MICIVIH).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-193]]

    (f) Administration of Justice Assistance.--(1) The limitation in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to funds appropriated under this Act that 
are made available for the Ministry of Justice for the training of 
judges if the President determines and reports to the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and 
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives, that Haiti's Minister of 
Justice--
            (A) has demonstrated a commitment to the professionalism of 
        judicial personnel by consistently placing students graduated by 
        the Judicial School in appropriate judicial positions and has 
        made a commitment to share program costs associated with the 
        Judicial School; and
            (B) is making progress in making the judicial branch in 
        Haiti independent from the executive branch.

    (2) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to funds to 
support the training of prosecutors, judicial mentoring, legal 
                    assistance, and case management.

    Sec. 562. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2414a note.>> (a) Foreign Aid Reporting 
Requirement.--In addition to the voting practices of a foreign country, 
the report required to be submitted to Congress under section 406(a) of 
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, fiscal years 1990 and 1991 (22 
U.S.C. 2414a), shall include a side-by-side comparison of individual 
countries' overall support for the United States at the United Nations 
and the amount of United States assistance provided to such country in 
fiscal year 1998.

    (b) United States Assistance.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``United States assistance'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 481(e)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
                              2291(e)(4)).

    Sec. 563. (a) Prohibition on Voluntary Contributions for the United 
Nations.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available to pay any voluntary contribution of the United States to the 
United Nations (including the United Nations Development Program) if the 
United Nations implements or imposes any taxation on any United States 
persons.
    (b) Certification Required for Disbursement of Funds.--None of the 
funds appropriated by this Act may be made available to pay any 
voluntary contribution of the United States to the United Nations 
(including the United Nations Development Program) unless the President 
certifies to the Congress 15 days in advance of such payment that the 
United Nations is not engaged in any effort to implement or impose any 
taxation on United States persons in order to raise revenue for the 
United Nations or any of its specialized agencies.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section the term ``United States 
person'' refers to--
            (1) a natural person who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-194]]

            (2) a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity 
        organized under the United States or any State, territory, 
                  possession, or district of the United States.

    Sec. 564. Not later than ninety days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Labor shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations 
a report addressing labor practices in Burma: Provided, That the report 
shall provide comprehensive details on child labor practices, worker's 
rights, forced relocation of laborers, forced labor performed to support 
the tourism industry, and forced labor performed in conjunction with, 
and in support of, the Yadonna gas pipeline: Provided further, That the 
report should address whether the government is in compliance with 
international labor standards: Provided further, That the report should 
provide details regarding the United States government's efforts to 
         address and correct practices of forced labor in Burma.

    Sec. 565. The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase 
defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the civilian-led Haitian National Police and 
Coast Guard: Provided, That the authority provided by this section shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    Sec. 566. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or expended with respect 
to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate that 
waiving such prohibition is important to the national security interests 
of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of six 
months at a time and shall not apply beyond twelve months after 
                         enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 567. None of the funds appropriated by title II of this Act may 
be made available to the Government of Croatia to relocate the remains 
of Croatian Ustashe soldiers, at the site of the World War II 
                concentration camp at Jasenovac, Croatia.

    Sec. 568. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
provided to any unit of the security forces of a foreign country if the 
Secretary of State has credible evidence that such unit has committed 
gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-195]]

the government of such country is taking effective measures to bring the 
responsible members of the security forces unit to justice: Provided, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to withhold funds made 
available by this Act from any unit of the security forces of a foreign 
country not credibly alleged to be involved in gross violations of human 
rights: Provided further, That in the event that funds are withheld from 
any unit pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State shall promptly 
inform the foreign government of the basis for such action and shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, assist the foreign government in taking 
effective measures to bring the responsible members of the security 
                           forces to justice.

    Sec. 569. In any agreement for the sale, transfer, or licensing of 
any lethal equipment or helicopter for
Indonesia entered into by the United States pursuant to the authority of 
this Act or any other Act, the agreement shall state that the United 
States expects that the items will not be used in East Timor: Provided, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to limit Indonesia's 
inherent right to legitimate national self-defense as recognized under 
            the United Nations Charter and international law.

    Sec. 570. (a) Bilateral Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by this or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing and related programs, may be provided for 
any country, entity or canton described in subsection (e).
    (b) Multilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive directors of the 
        international financial institutions to work in opposition to, 
        and vote against, any extension by such institutions of any 
        financial or technical assistance or grants of any kind to any 
        country or entity described in subsection (e).
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days before any vote in 
        an international financial institution regarding the extension 
        of financial or technical assistance or grants to any country or 
        entity described in subsection (e), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
        provide to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a written justification 
        for the proposed assistance, including an explanation of the 
        United States position regarding any such vote, as well as a 
        description of the location of the proposed assistance by 
        municipality, its purpose, and its intended beneficiaries.
            (3) Definition.--The term ``international financial 
        institution'' includes the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International Finance 
        Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guaranty Agency, and 
        the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

    (c) Exceptions.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-196]]

            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), subsections (a) 
        and (b) shall not apply to the provision of--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) democratization assistance;
                    (C) assistance for cross border physical 
                infrastructure projects involving activities in both a 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton and a 
                nonsanctioned contiguous country, entity, or canton, if 
                the project is primarily located in and primarily 
                benefits the nonsanctioned country, entity, or canton 
                and if the portion of the project located in the 
                sanctioned country, entity, or canton is necessary only 
                to complete the project;
                    (D) small-scale assistance projects or activities 
                requested by United States Armed Forces that promote 
                good relations between such forces and the officials and 
                citizens of the areas in the United States SFOR sector 
                of Bosnia;
                    (E) implementation of the Brcko Arbitral Decision;
                    (F) lending by the international financial 
                institutions to a country or entity to support common 
                monetary and fiscal policies at the national level as 
                contemplated by the Dayton Agreement; or
                    (G) direct lending to a non-sanctioned entity, or 
                lending passed on by the national government to a non-
                sanctioned entity.
                    (H) assistance to the International Police Task 
                Force for the training of a civilian police force.
             <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> (2) 
        Notification.--Every 30 days the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the Agency for 
        International Development, shall publish in the Federal Register 
        and/or in a comparable publicly accessible document or internet 
        site, a listing and justification of any assistance that is 
        obligated within that period of time for any country, entity, or 
        canton described in subsection (e), including a description of 
        the purpose of the assistance, project and its location, by 
        municipality.

    (d) Further limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)--
            (1) no assistance may be made available by this Act, or any 
        prior Act making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
        financing and related programs, in any country, entity, or 
        canton described in subsection (e), for a program, project, or 
        activity in which a publicly indicted war criminal is known to 
        have any financial or material interest; and
            (2) no assistance (other than emergency foods or medical 
        assistance or demining assistance) may be made available by this 
        Act, or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
        operations, export financing and related programs for any 
        program, project, or activity in a community within any country, 
        entity or canton described in subsection (e) if competent 
        authorities within that community are not complying with the 
        provisions of Article IX and Annex 4, Article II, paragraph 8 of 
        the Dayton Agreement relating to war crimes and the Tribunal.

    (e) Sanctioned Country, Entity, or Canton.--A sanctioned country, 
entity, or canton described in this section is one whose competent 
authorities have failed, as determined by the Secretary of State, to 
take necessary and significant steps to apprehend and transfer to the 
Tribunal all persons who have been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-197]]

    (f) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
        application of subsection (a) or subsection (b) with respect to 
        specified bilateral programs or international financial 
        institution projects or programs in a sanctioned country, 
        entity, or canton upon providing a written determination to the 
        Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
        Representatives that such assistance directly supports the 
        implementation of the Dayton Agreement and its Annexes, which 
        include the obligation to apprehend and transfer indicted war 
        criminals to the Tribunal.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the date of any 
        written determination under paragraph (1) the Secretary of State 
        shall submit a report to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Appropriations and the Committee on International Relations 
        of the House of Representatives regarding the status of efforts 
        to secure the voluntary surrender or apprehension and transfer 
        of persons indicted by the Tribunal, in accordance with the 
        Dayton Agreement, and outlining obstacles to achieving this 
        goal; and
            (3) Assistance programs and projects affected.--Any waiver 
        made pursuant to this subsection shall be effective only with 
        respect to a specified bilateral program or multilateral 
        assistance project or program identified in the determination of 
        the Secretary of State to Congress.

    (g) Termination of Sanctions.--The sanctions imposed pursuant to 
subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a country or entity shall cease 
to apply only if the Secretary of State determines and certifies to 
Congress that the authorities of that country, entity, or canton have 
apprehended and transferred to the Tribunal all persons who have been 
publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    (h) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) Country.--The term ``country'' means Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
        Croatia, Serbia, and Montenegro.
            (2) Entity.--The term ``entity'' refers to the Federation of 
        Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska.
            (3) Canton.--The term ``canton'' means the administrative 
        units in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
            (4) Dayton agreement.--The term ``Dayton Agreement'' means 
        the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and 
        Herzegovina, together with annexes relating thereto, done at 
        Dayton, November 10 through 16, 1995.
            (5) Tribunal.--The term ``Tribunal'' means the International 
        Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.

    (i) Role of Human Rights Organizations and Government Agencies.--In 
carrying out this section, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development, and the executive directors of 
the international financial institutions shall consult with 
representatives of human rights organizations and all government 
agencies with relevant information to help prevent publicly indicted war 
criminals from benefitting from any financial or technical assistance or 
grants provided to any country or entity described in subsection (e).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-198]]

    Sec. 571. (a) Value of Additions to Stockpiles.--Section 
514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking the word ``and'' after ``1997'', 
and inserting in lieu thereof a comma and inserting before the period at 
the end the following: ``and $340,000,000 for fiscal year 1999''.
    (b) Requirements Relating to the Republic of Korea and Thailand.--
Section 514(b)(2)(B) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(B)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ``Of the amount specified in 
subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 1999, not more than $320,000,000 may be 
made available for stockpiles in the Republic of Korea and not more than 
    $20,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in Thailand.''.

    Sec. 572. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be made 
available for the Government of Russian Federation, after 180 days from 
the date of enactment of this Act, unless the President determines and 
certifies in writing to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the Government of the 
Russian Federation has implemented no statute, executive order, 
regulation or similar government action that would discriminate, or 
would have as its principal effect discrimination, against religious 
groups or religious communities in the Russian Federation in violation 
of accepted international agreements on human rights and religious 
          freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a party.

    Sec. 573. (a) Funds made available in this Act to support programs 
or activities promoting country participation in the Kyoto Protocol to 
the Framework Convention on Climate Change
(FCCC) shall only be made available subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    (b) The President shall provide a detailed account of all Federal 
agency obligations and expenditures for climate change programs and 
activities, domestic and international, for fiscal year 1998, planned 
obligations for such activities in fiscal year 1999, and any plan for 
programs thereafter related to the implementation or the furtherance of 
protocols pursuant to, or related to negotiations to amend the FCCC in 
conjunction with the President's submission of the Budget of the United 
States Government for Fiscal Year 2000: Provided, That such report shall 
include an accounting of expenditures by agency with each agency 
identifying climate change activities and associated costs by line item 
            as presented in the President's Budget Appendix.

    Sec. 574. (a) Withholding of Assistance.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), whenever the President determines and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-199]]

certifies to Congress that the government of any country is violating 
any sanction against Libya imposed pursuant to United Nations Security 
Council Resolution 731, 748, or 883, then not less than 5 percent of the 
funds allocated for the country under section 653(a) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 out of appropriations in this Act shall be 
withheld from obligation or expenditure for that country.
    (b) Exception.--The requirement to withhold funds under subsection 
(a) shall not apply to funds appropriated in this Act for allocation 
under section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
development assistance or for humanitarian assistance.
    (c) Waiver.--Funds may be provided for a country without regard to 
subsection (a) if the President determines that to do so is in the 
            national security interest of the United States.

    Sec. 575. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
provided for assistance for the central Government of the Democratic 
Government of Congo until such time as the President reports in writing 
to the Congress that the central Government is--
            (1) investigating and prosecuting those responsible for 
        human rights violations committed in the Democratic Republic of 
        Congo; and
            (2) implementing a credible democratic transition program.

    (b) This section shall not apply to assistance to promote democracy 
and the rule of law as part of a plan to implement a credible democratic 
                           transition program.

    Sec. 576. Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Economic Support Fund'', ``Foreign Military Financing '', 
``International Military Education and Training '', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', for refugees resettling in Israel under the heading 
``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and for assistance for Israel to 
carry out provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 under the heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, 
Demining, and Related Programs'', not more than a total of 
$5,402,850,000 may be made available for Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, 
the West Bank and Gaza, the Israel-Lebanon Monitoring Group, the 
Multinational Force and Observers, the Middle East Regional Democracy 
Fund, Middle East Regional Cooperation, and Middle East Multilateral 
Working Groups: Provided, That any funds that were appropriated under 
such headings in prior fiscal years and that were at the time of 
enactment of this Act obligated or allocated for other recipients may 
not during fiscal year 1999 be made available for activities that, if 
funded under this Act, would be required to count against this ceiling: 
Provided further, That funds may be made available notwithstanding the 
requirements of this
section if the President determines and certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that it is important to the national security interest of 
the United States to do so and any such additional funds shall only be 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-200]]

    Sec. 577. Prior to the distribution of any assets resulting from any 
liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole 
or in part, the President shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, a plan for the distribution of the 
                     assets of the Enterprise Fund.

    Sec. 578. The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the United 
States executive directors of the international financial institutions 
to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose loans to the 
   Government of Cambodia, except loans to support basic human needs.

    Sec. 579. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation other than 
for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 1999 for 
programs under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs and activities 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 25 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That 
the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular 
      notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 580. (a) Not to exceed $385,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
in title II of this Act may be available for population planning 
activities or other population assistance.
    (b) Such funds may be apportioned only on a monthly basis, and such 
monthly apportionments may not exceed 8.34 percent of the total 
                     available for such activities.

    Sec. 581. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
shall jointly provide to the Congress by January 31, 1999, a report on 
all military training provided to foreign military personnel under 
programs administered by the Department of Defense and the Department of 
State during fiscal years 1998 and 1999, including those proposed for 
fiscal year 1999. This report shall include, for each such military 
training activity, the foreign policy justification and purpose for the 
training activity, the cost of the training activity, the number of 
foreign students trained and their units of operation, and the location 
of the training. In addition, this report shall also include, with 
respect to United States personnel, the operational benefits to United 
States forces derived from each such training activity and the United 
States military units involved in each such training activity. This 
report may include a classified annex if deemed necessary and 
appropriate.
    (b) For purposes of this section a report to Congress shall be 
deemed to mean a report to the Appropriations and Foreign

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-201]]

Relations Committees of the Senate and the Appropriations and 
   International Relations Committees of the House of Representatives.

      Sec. 582. (a) of the funds made available under the heading 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', not 
to exceed $35,000,000 may be made available for the Korean Peninsula 
Energy Development Organization (hereafter referred to in this section 
as ``KEDO''), notwithstanding any other provision of law, only for the 
administrative expenses and heavy fuel oil costs associated with the 
Agreed Framework: Provided, that none of these funds may be made 
available until March 1, 1999.
      (b) Of the funds made available for KEDO, up to $15,000,000 may be 
made available prior to June 1, 1999, if, thirty days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that--
            (1)(A) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to assure that progress is 
        made on the implementation of the January 1, 1992, Joint 
        Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in 
        which the government of North Korea has committed not to test, 
        manufacture, produce, receive, possess, store, deploy or use 
        nuclear weapons;
            (B) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to assure that progress is 
        made on the implementation of the North-South dialogue; and
            (C) North Korea is complying with all provisions of the 
        Agreed Framework and with the Confidential Minute between North 
        Korea and the United States;
            (2) North Korea is cooperating fully in the canning and safe 
        storage of all spent fuel from its graphite-moderated nuclear 
        reactors;
            (3) North Korea has not significantly diverted assistance 
        provided by the United States for purposes for which it was not 
        intended; and
            (4) the United States is fully engaged in efforts to impede 
        North Korea's development and export of ballistic missiles; and
      (c) Of the funds made available for KEDO, up to $20,000,000 may be 
made available on or after June 1, 1999, if, thirty days prior to such 
obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to Congress 
that:
            (1) the United States has initiated meaningful discussions 
        with North Korea on implementation of the Joint Declaration on 
        the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula;
            (2) the United States has reached agreement with North Korea 
        on the means for satisfying U.S. concerns regarding suspect 
        underground construction; and;
            (3) the United States is making significant progress on 
        reducing and eliminating the North Korean ballistic missile 
        threat, including its ballistic missile exports.
      (d) The President may waive the certification requirements of 
subsections (b) and (c) if the President determines that it is vital to 
the national security interests of the United States and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-202]]

provides written policy justifications to the appropriate congressional 
committees prior to his exercise of such waiver. No funds may be 
obligated for KEDO until 30 days after submission to Congress of such 
waiver.

    (e) Not later than January 1, 1999, the President shall name a 
``North Korea Policy Coordinator'', who shall conduct a full and 
complete interagency review of United States policy toward North Korea, 
shall provide policy direction for negotiations with North Korea related 
to nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles, and other security related 
issues, and shall also provide leadership for United States 
participation in KEDO.
      (f) The Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees an annual report (to be submitted with the 
annual presentation for appropriations) providing a full and detailed 
accounting of the fiscal year request for the United States contribution 
to KEDO, the expected operating budget of the KEDO, to include unpaid 
debt, proposed annual costs associated with heavy fuel oil purchases, 
and the amount of funds pledged by other donor nations and organizations 
to support KEDO activities on a per country basis, and other related 
activities.
      (g) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees an annual report on the degree to which KEDO's 
mission and the Agreed Framework continue to promote important United 
States national security interests, contribute to delaying North Korean 
indigenous development of nuclear weapons-related technology, and 
     positively impact the level of tension on the Korean Peninsula.

    Sec. 583. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r note.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, each annual report required by subsection 1701(a) of 
the International Financial Institutions Act, as amended (Public Law 95-
118, 22 U.S.C. 262r), shall comprise--
            (1) an assessment of the effectiveness of the major policies 
        and operations of the international financial institutions;
            (2) the major issues affecting United States participation;
            (3) the major developments in the past year;
            (4) the prospects for the coming year;
            (5) the progress made and steps taken to achieve United 
        States policy goals (including major policy goals embodied in 
        current law) with respect to the international financial 
        institutions; and
            (6) such data and explanations concerning the effectiveness, 
        operations, and policies of the international financial 
        institutions, such recommendations concerning the international 
        financial institutions, and such other data and material as the 
        Chairman may deem appropriate.

    (b) The requirements of Sections 1602(e), 1603(c), 1604(c), and 
1701(b) of the International Financial Institutions Act, as amended 
(Public Law 95-118, 22 U.S.C. 262p-1, 262p-2, 262p-3 and 262(r)), 
Section 2018(c) of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1986, as 
amended (Public Law 99-570, 22 U.S.C. 2291 note), Section 407(c) of the 
Foreign Debt Reserving Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-240, 22 U.S.C. 2291 
note), Section 14(c) of the Inter-American Development Bank Act, as 
amended (Public Law 86-147, 22 U.S.C. 283j-1(c)), and Section 1002 of 
the Freedom for Russia and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-203]]

Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-511) (22 U.S.C. 286ll(b)) shall no longer apply to the 
                    contents of such annual reports.

    Sec. 584. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical support, 
consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the Palestinian 
                        Broadcasting Corporation.

    Sec. 585. (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Iraq is continuing efforts to mask the extent of its 
        weapons of mass destruction and missile programs;
            (2) proposals to relax the current international inspection 
        regime would have potentially dangerous consequences for 
        international security; and
            (3) Iraq has demonstrated time and again that it cannot be 
        trusted to abide by international norms or by its own 
        agreements, and that the only way the international community 
        can be assured of Iraqi compliance is by ongoing inspection.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the international agencies charged with inspections in 
        Iraq--the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the 
        United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) should maintain 
        vigorous inspections, including surprise inspections, within 
        Iraq; and
            (2) the United States should oppose any efforts to ease the 
        inspections regimes on Iraq until there is clear, credible 
        evidence that the Government of Iraq is in full compliance with 
        all relevant United Nations' resolutions.

    (c) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit a report to Congress on the United 
States Government's assessment of Iraq's nuclear and other weapons of 
mass destruction programs and its efforts to move toward procurement of 
nuclear weapons and the means to deliver weapons of mass destruction. 
The report shall also--
            (1) assess the United States view of the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency's action team reports and other IAEA 
        efforts to monitor the extent and nature of Iraq's nuclear 
        program; and
            (2) include the United States Government's opinion on the 
        value of maintaining the ongoing inspection regime rather than 
                 replacing it with a passive monitoring system.

    Sec. 586. (a) The Congress finds that--
            (1) according to the Department of State, Iran continues to 
        support international terrorism, providing training, financing, 
        and weapons to such terrorist groups as Hizballah, Islamic Jihad 
        and Hamas;
            (2) Iran continues to oppose the Arab-Israeli peace process 
        and refuses to recognize Israel's right to exist;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-204]]

            (3) Iran continues aggressively to seek weapons of mass 
        destruction and the missiles to deliver them;
            (4) it is long-standing United States policy to offer 
        official government-to-government dialogue with the Iranian 
        regime, such offers having been repeatedly rebuffed by Tehran;
            (5) more than a year after the election of President 
        Khatemi, Iranian foreign policy continues to threaten American 
        security and that of our allies in the Middle East; and
            (6) despite repeated offers and tentative steps toward 
        rapprochement with Iran by the Clinton Administration, including 
        a decision to waive sanctions under the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act 
        and the President's veto of the Iran Missile Proliferation 
        Sanctions Act, Iran has failed to reciprocate in a meaningful 
        manner.

    (b) Therefore it is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Administration should make no concessions to the 
        Government of Iran unless and until that government moderates 
        its objectionable policies, including taking steps to end its 
        support of international terrorism, opposition to the Middle 
        East peace process, and the development and proliferation of 
        weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery; and
            (2) there should be no change in United States policy toward 
        Iran until there is credible and sustained evidence of a change 
                              in Iranian policies.

    Sec. 587. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2381 note.>> (a) Establishment of Office.--
There shall be established within the Office of the Administrator of the 
Agency for International Development, an Office of Security. Such Office 
of Security shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law except 
section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 and section 103 of Public 
Law 199-339, have the responsibility for the supervision, direction, and 
control of all security activities relating to the programs and 
operations of that Agency.

    (b) Transfer and Allocation of Appropriations and Personnel.--There 
are transferred to the
Office of Security all security functions exercised by the Office of 
Inspector General of the Agency for International Development exercised 
before the date of enactment of this Act. The Administrator shall 
transfer from the Office of the Inspector General of such Agency to the 
Office of Security established by subsection (a), the personnel 
(including the Senior Executive Service position designated for the 
Assistant Inspector General for Security), assets, liabilities, grants, 
contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, 
and other funds held, used, available to, or to be made available in 
connection with such functions. Unexpended balances of appropriations, 
and other funds made available or to be made available in connection 
with such functions, shall be transferred to and merged with funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Operating Expenses of the 
Agency for International Development''.

    (c) Transfer of Employees.--Any employee in the career service who 
is transferred pursuant to this section shall be placed in a position in 
the Office of Security established by subsection (a) which is comparable 
to the position the employee held in the Office of the Inspector General 
of the Agency for International Development.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-205]]

    Sec. 588. (a) Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) North Korea has been active in developing new 
        generations of medium-range and intermediate-range ballistic 
        missiles, including both the Nodong and Taepo Dong class 
        missiles.
            (2) North Korea is not an adherent to the Missile Technology 
        Control Regime, actively cooperates with Iran and Pakistan in 
        ballistic missile programs, and has declared its intention to 
        continue to export ballistic missile technology.
            (3) North Korea has shared technology involved in the Taepo 
        Dong I missile program with Iran, which is concurrently 
        developing the Shahab-3 intermediate-range ballistic missile.
            (4) North Korea is developing the Taepo Dong II 
        intermediate-range ballistic missile, which is expected to have 
        sufficient range to put at risk United States territories, 
        forces, and allies throughout the Asia-Pacific area.
            (5) Multistage missiles like the Taepo Dong class missile 
        can ultimately be extended to intercontinental range.
            (6) The bipartisan Commission to Assess the Ballistic 
        Missile Threat to the United States emphasized the need for the 
        United States intelligence community and United States policy 
        makers to
review the methodology by which they assess foreign missile programs in 
order to guard against surprise developments with respect to such 
programs.

    (b) It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) North Korea should be forcefully condemned for its 
        August 31, 1998, firing of a Taepo Dong I intermediate-range 
        ballistic missile over the sovereign territory of another 
        country, specifically Japan, an event that demonstrated an 
        advanced capability for employing multistage missiles, which are 
        by nature capable of extended range, including intercontinental 
        range;
            (2) the United States should reassess its cooperative space 
        launch programs with countries that continue to assist North 
        Korea and Iran in their ballistic missile and cruise missile 
        programs;
            (3) any financial or technical assistance provided to North 
        Korea should take into account the continuing conduct by that 
        country of activities which destabilize the region, including 
        the missile firing referred to in paragraph (1), continued 
        submarine incursions into South Korean territorial waters, and 
        violations of the demilitarized zone separating North Korea and 
        South Korea;
            (4) the recommendations of the Commission to Assess the 
        Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States should be 
        incorporated into the analytical processes of the United States 
        intelligence community as soon as possible; and
            (5) the United States should accelerate cooperative theater 
                      missile defense programs with Japan.

    Sec. 589. (a) Establishment of Program.--Chapter 1 of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-206]]

``SEC. 129. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151aa.>> PROGRAM TO PROVIDE TECHNICAL 
            ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND FOREIGN CENTRAL BANKS 
            OF DEVELOPING OR TRANSITIONAL COUNTRIES.

    ``(a) Establishment of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        after consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, is authorized to establish a program to provide 
        technical assistance to foreign governments and foreign central 
        banks of developing or transitional countries.
            ``(2) Role of secretary of state.--The Secretary of State 
        shall provide foreign policy guidance to the Secretary to ensure 
        that the program established under this subsection is 
        effectively integrated into the foreign policy of the United 
        States.

    ``(b) Conduct of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out the program established 
        under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide economic and 
        financial technical assistance to foreign governments and 
        foreign central banks of developing and transitional countries 
        by providing advisers with appropriate expertise to advance the 
        enactment of laws and establishment of administrative procedures 
        and institutions in such countries to promote macroeconomic and 
        fiscal stability, efficient resource allocation, transparent and 
        market-oriented processes and sustainable private sector growth.
            ``(2) Additional requirements.--To the extent practicable, 
        such technical assistance shall be designed to establish--
                    ``(A) tax systems that are fair, objective, and 
                efficiently gather sufficient revenues for governmental 
                operations;
                    ``(B) debt issuance and management programs that 
                rely on market forces;
                    ``(C) budget planning and implementation that 
                permits responsible fiscal policy management;
                    ``(D) commercial banking sector development that 
                efficiently intermediates between savers and investors; 
                and
                    ``(E) financial law enforcement to protect the 
                integrity of financial systems, financial institutions, 
                and government programs.

    ``(c) Administrative Requirements.--In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary--
            ``(1) shall establish a methodology for identifying and 
        selecting foreign governments and foreign central banks to 
        receive assistance under the program;
            ``(2) prior to selecting a foreign government or foreign 
        central bank to receive assistance under the program, shall 
        receive the concurrence of the Secretary of State with respect 
        to the selection of such government or central bank and with 
        respect to the cost of the assistance to such government or 
        central bank;
            ``(3) shall consult with the heads of appropriate Executive 
        agencies of the United States, including the Secretary of State 
        and the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development, and appropriate international 
        financial institutions to avoid duplicative efforts with respect 
        to those foreign countries for which such agencies or 
        organizations provide similar assistance;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-207]]

            ``(4) shall ensure that the program is consistent with the 
        International Affairs Strategic Plan and Mission Performance 
        Plan of the United States Agency for International Development;
            ``(5) shall establish and carry out a plan to evaluate the 
        program.

    ``(d) Administrative Authorities.--In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary shall have the following 
administrative authorities:
            ``(1) The Secretary may provide allowances and benefits 
        under chapter 9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
        (22 U.S.C. 4081 et seq.) to any officer or employee of any 
        agency of the United States Government performing functions 
        under this section outside the United States.
            ``(2)(A) The Secretary may allocate or transfer to any 
        agency of the United States Government any
part of any funds available for carrying out this section, including any 
advance to the United States Government by any country or international 
organization for the procurement of commodities, supplies, or services.
            ``(B) Such funds shall be available for obligation and 
        expenditure for the purposes for which such funds were 
        authorized, in accordance with authority granted in this section 
        or under authority governing the activities of the agency of the 
        United States Government to which such funds are allocated or 
        transferred.
            ``(3) Appropriations for the purposes of or pursuant to this 
        section, and allocations to any agency of the United States 
        Government from other appropriations for functions directly 
        related to the purposes of this section, shall be available 
        for--
                    ``(A) contracting with individuals for personal 
                services abroad, except that such individuals shall not 
                be regarded as employees of the United States Government 
                for the purpose of any law administered by the Office of 
                Personnel Management;
                    ``(B) the purchase and hire of passenger motor 
                vehicles, except that passenger motor vehicles may be 
                purchased only--
                          ``(i) for use in foreign countries; and
                          ``(ii) if the Secretary or the Secretary's 
                      designee has determined that the vehicle is 
                      necessary to accomplish the mission;
                    ``(C) the purchase of insurance for official motor 
                vehicles acquired for use in foreign countries;
                    ``(D)(i) the rent or lease outside the United 
                States, not to exceed 5 years, of offices, buildings, 
                grounds, and quarters, including living quarters to 
                house personnel, consistent with the relevant 
                interagency housing board policy, and payments therefor 
                in advance;
                    ``(ii) maintenance, furnishings, necessary repairs, 
                improvements, and alterations to properties owned or 
                rented by the United States Government or made available 
                for use to the United States Government outside the 
                United States; and
                    ``(iii) costs of insurance, fuel, water, and 
                utilities for such properties;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-208]]

                    ``(E) expenses of preparing and transporting to 
                their former homes or places of burial the remains of 
                foreign participants or members of the family of foreign 
                participants, who may die while such participants are 
                away from their homes participating in activities 
                carried out with funds covered by this section;
                    ``(F) notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                transportation and payment of per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence to foreign participants engaged in 
                activities of the program under this section while such 
                participants are away from their homes in countries 
                other than the United States, at rates not in excess of 
                those prescribed by the standardized Government travel 
                regulations;
                    ``(G) expenses in connection with travel of 
                personnel outside the United States, including travel 
                expenses of dependents (including expenses during 
                necessary stop-overs while engaged in such travel), and 
                transportation of personal effects, household goods, and 
                automobiles of such personnel when any part of such 
                travel or transportation begins in one fiscal year 
                pursuant to travel orders issued in that fiscal year, 
                notwithstanding the fact that such travel or 
                transportation may not be completed during the same 
                fiscal year, and cost of transporting automobiles to and 
                from a place of storage, and the cost of storing 
                automobiles of such personnel when it is in the public 
                interest or more economical to authorize storage; and
                    ``(H) grants to, and cooperative agreements and 
                contracts with, any individual, corporation, or other 
                body of persons, nonprofit organization, friendly 
                government or government agency, whether within or 
                without the United States, and international 
                organizations, as the Secretary determines is 
                appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.
            ``(4) Whenever the Secretary determines it to be consistent 
        with the purposes of this section, the Secretary is authorized 
        to furnish services and commodities on an advance-of-funds basis 
        to any friendly country or international organization that is 
        not otherwise prohibited from receiving assistance under this 
        Act. Such advances may be credited to the currently applicable 
        appropriation, account, or fund of the Department of the 
        Treasury and shall be available for the purposes for which such 
        appropriation, account, or fund is authorized to be used.

    ``(e) Issuance of Regulations.--The Secretary is authorized to issue 
such regulations with respect to personal service contractors as the 
Secretary deems necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to infringe upon the powers or functions of the Secretary of 
State (including the powers or functions described in section 103 of the 
Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 
4802)) or of any chief of mission (including the powers or functions 
described in section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
3927)).
    ``(g) Termination of Assistance.--The Secretary shall conclude 
assistance activities for a recipient foreign government or foreign 
central bank under the program established under subsection (a) if the 
Secretary, after consultation with the appropriate

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-209]]

officers of the United States, determines that such assistance has 
resulted in the enactment of laws or the establishment of institutions 
in that country that promote fiscal stability and administrative 
procedures, efficient resource allocation, transparent and market-
oriented processes and private sector growth in a sustainable manner.

    ``(h) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this section, and every 6 months thereafter, 
        the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on the conduct of the program 
        established under this section during the preceding 6-month 
        period.
            ``(2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `appropriate 
        congressional committees' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on International Relations and 
                the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Developing or transitional country.--The term 
        `developing or transitional country' means a country eligible to 
        receive development assistance under this chapter.
            ``(2) International financial institution.--The term 
        `international financial institution' means the International 
        Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development, the International Development Association, the 
        International Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment 
        Guarantee Agency, the Asian Development Bank, the African 
        Development Bank, the African Development Fund, the Inter-
        American Development Bank, the Inter-American Investment 
        Corporation, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development, and the Bank for Economic Cooperation and 
        Development in the Middle East and North Africa.
            ``(3) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
            ``(4) Technical assistance.--The term `technical assistance' 
        includes--
                    ``(A) the use of short-term and long-term expert 
                advisers to assist foreign governments and foreign 
                central banks for the purposes described in subsection 
                (b)(1);
                    ``(B) training in the recipient country, the United 
                States, or elsewhere for the purposes described in 
                subsection (b)(1);
                    ``(C) grants of goods, services, or funds to foreign 
                governments and foreign central banks;
                    ``(D) grants to United States nonprofit 
                organizations to provide services or products which 
                contribute to the provision of advice to foreign 
                governments and foreign central banks; and
                    ``(E) study tours for foreign officials in the 
                United States or elsewhere for the purpose of providing 
                technical information to such officials.
            ``(5) Foreign participant.--The term `foreign participant' 
        means the national of a developing or transitional country that 
        is receiving assistance under the program established

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-210]]

        under subsection (a) who has been designated to participate in 
        activities under such program.

    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        to carry out this section $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1999.
            ``(2) Availability of amounts.--Amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under paragraph (1) are authorized to remain 
        available until expended.''.

    (b) Transportation of Remains, Dependents, and Effects of United 
States Government Employees; Death Occurring Away From Official Station 
Abroad.--Section 5742(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the travel expenses of not more than 2 persons to 
        escort the remains of a deceased employee, if death occurred 
        while the employee was in travel status away from his official 
        station in the United States or while performing official duties 
        outside the United States or in transit thereto or therefrom, 
        from the place of death to the home or official station of such 
        person, or such other place appropriate for interment as is 
               determined by the head of the agency concerned.''.

    Sec. 590. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
made available in this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for 
foreign operations, export financing and related programs, not less than 
$8,000,000 shall be made available only for assistance to the Iraqi 
democratic opposition for such activities as organization, training, 
communication and dissemination of information, and developing and 
implementing agreements among opposition groups: Provided further, That 
any agreement reached regarding the obligation of funds under the 
previous proviso shall include provisions to ensure appropriate 
monitoring on the use of such funds: Provided further, That of this 
amount not less than $3,000,000 should be made available as a grant to 
Iraqi National Congress, to be administered by its Executive Committee 
for the benefit of all constituent groups of the Iraqi National 
Congress: Provided further, That within 30 days of enactment of this Act 
the Secretary of State shall submit a detailed report to the 
Appropriations Committees of Congress on implementation of this section.

    Sec. 591. (a) Establishment of National Commission on Terrorism.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a national 
        commission on terrorism to review counter-terrorism policies 
        regarding the prevention and punishment of international acts of 
        terrorism directed at the United States. The commission shall be 
        known as ``The National Commission on Terrorism''.
            (2) Composition.--The commission shall be composed of 10 
        members appointed as follows:
                    (A) Three members shall be appointed by the Majority 
                Leader of the Senate.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-211]]

                    (B) Three members shall be appointed by the Speaker 
                of the House of Representatives.
                    (C) Two members shall be appointed by the Minority 
                Leader of the Senate.
                    (D) Two members shall be appointed by the Minority 
                Leader of the House of Representatives.
                    (E) The appointments of the members of the 
                commission should be made no later than 3 months after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Qualifications.--The members should have a knowledge and 
        expertise in matters to be studied by the commission.
            (4) Chair.--The Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
        after consultation with the majority leader of the Senate and 
        the minority leaders of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate, shall designate one of the members of the Commission to 
        serve as chair of the Commission.
            (5) Period of appointment: vacancies.--Members shall be 
        appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the 
        Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
        appointment.
            (6) Security clearances.--All Members of the Commission 
        should hold appropriate security clearances.

    (b) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The commission shall consider issues 
        relating to international terrorism directed at the United 
        States as follows:
                    (A) Review the laws, regulations, policies, 
                directives, and practices relating to counterterrorism 
                in the prevention and punishment of international 
                terrorism directed towards the United States.
                    (B) Assess the extent to which laws, regulations, 
                policies, directives, and practices relating to 
                counterterrorism have been effective in preventing or 
                punishing international terrorism directed towards the 
                United States. At a minimum, the assessment should 
                include a review of the following:
                          (i) Evidence that terrorist organizations have 
                      established an infrastructure in the western 
                      hemisphere for the support and conduct of 
                      terrorist activities.
                          (ii) Executive branch efforts to coordinate 
                      counterterrorism activities among Federal, State, 
                      and local agencies and with other nations to 
                      determine the effectiveness of such coordination 
                      efforts.
                          (iii) Executive branch efforts to prevent the 
                      use of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons 
                      by terrorists.
                    (C) Recommend changes to counterterrorism policy in 
                preventing and punishing international terrorism 
                directed toward the United States.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date on which 
        the Commission first meets, the Commission shall submit to the 
        President and the Congress a final report of the findings and 
        conclusions of the commission, together with any 
        recommendations.

    (c) Administrative Matters.--
            (1) Meetings.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-212]]

                    (A) The commission shall hold its first meeting on a 
                date designated by the Speaker of the House which is not 
                later than 30 days after the date on which all members 
                have been appointed.
                    (B) After the first meeting, the commission shall 
                meet upon the call of the chair.
                    (C) A majority of the members of the commission 
                shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold 
                meetings.
            (2) Authority of individuals to act for commission.--Any 
        member or agent of the commission may, if authorized by the 
        commission, take any action which the commission is authorized 
        to take under this section.
            (3) Powers.--
                    (A) The commission may hold such hearings, sit and 
                act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
                receive such evidence as the commission considers 
                advisable to carry out its duties.
                    (B) The commission may secure directly from any 
                agency of the Federal Government such information as the 
                commission considers necessary to carry out its duties. 
                Upon the request of the chair of the commission, the 
                head of a department or agency shall furnish the 
                requested information expeditiously to the commission.
                    (C) The commission may use the United States mails 
                in the same manner and under the same conditions as 
                other departments and agencies of the Federal 
                Government.
            (4) Pay and expenses of commission members.--
                    (A) Subject to appropriations, each member of the 
                commission who is not an employee of the government 
                shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the daily 
                equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed 
                for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
                5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
                (including travel time) during which such member is 
                engaged in performing the duties of the commission.
                    (B) Members and personnel for the commission may 
                travel on aircraft, vehicles, or other conveyances of 
                the Armed Forces of the United States when travel is 
                necessary in the performance of a duty of the commission 
                except when the cost of commercial transportation is 
                less expensive.
                    (C) The members of the commission may be allowed 
                travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of 
                agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
                United States Code, while away from their homes or 
                regular places of business in the performance of 
                services for the commission.
                    (D)(i) A member of the commission who is an 
                annuitant otherwise covered by section 8344 of 8468 of 
                title 5, United States Code, by reason of membership on 
                the commission shall not be subject to the provisions of 
                such section with respect to membership on the 
                commission.
                    (ii) A member of the commission who is a member or 
                former member of a uniformed service shall not be 
                subject to the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of 
                section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-213]]

                5532 of such title with respect to membership on the 
                commission.
            (5) Staff and administrative support.--
                    (A) The chairman of the commission may, without 
                regard to civil service laws and regulations, appoint 
                and terminate an executive director and up to three 
                additional staff members as necessary to enable the 
                commission to perform its duties. The chairman of the 
                commission may fix the compensation of the executive 
                director and other personnel without regard to the 
                provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter III of chapter 
                53, of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                classification of positions and General Schedule pay 
                rates, except that the rate of pay may not exceed the 
                maximum rate of pay for GS-15 under the General 
                Schedule.
                    (B) Upon the request of the chairman of the 
                commission, the head of any department or agency of the 
                Federal Government may detail, without reimbursement, 
                any personnel of the department or agency to the 
                commission to assist in carrying out its duties. The 
                detail of an employee shall be without interruption or 
                loss of civil service status or privilege.

    (d) Termination of Commission.--The commission shall terminate 30 
days after the date on which the commission submits a final report.
    (e) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
      may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

    Sec. 592. The authority of section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, may not be used during fiscal year 1999 for the 
Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization to authorize the use of 
more than $35,000,000 of funds made available for use under that Act or 
                      the Arms Export Control Act.

    Sec. 593. (a) Political and Economic Reform.--It is the sense of 
Congress that--
            (1) expanding the availability of wheat, wheat products, and 
        rice for distribution to the most needy and vulnerable 
        Indonesians is vital to the well-being of all Indonesians;
            (2) the Administration should adopt a more active approach 
        in support of democratic institutions and processes in Indonesia 
        and provide assistance for continued economic and political 
        development in Indonesia, including--
                    (A) support for humanitarian programs;
                    (B) leading a multinational effort to expand 
                humanitarian and food aid programs to meet the needs of 
                Indonesia;
                    (C) working with international financial 
                institutions to recapitalize and reform the banking 
                system, restructure corporate debt, and introduce 
                economic and legal transparency in Indonesia;
                    (D) urging the Government of Indonesia to remove, to 
                the maximum extent possible, barriers to trade and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-214]]

                investment which impede economic recovery in Indonesia, 
                including tariffs, quotas, export taxes, nontariff 
                barriers, and prohibitions against foreign ownership and 
                investment;
                    (E) urging the Government of Indonesia to--
                          (i) recognize and protect the participation of 
                      all Indonesians, including ethnic and religious 
                      minorities, in the political and economic life of 
                      Indonesia; and
                          (ii) release individuals detained or 
                      imprisoned for their political views;
                    (F) supporting efforts to establish a timetable for 
                elections and building democracy by strengthening 
                political parties and institutions and the rule of law 
                including the repeal of laws and regulations that 
                discriminate on the basis of religion or ethnicity.

    (b) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report containing a description and assessment of the 
actions taken by the Government of the United States and the Government 
of Indonesia to further the objectives referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Ethnic Violence.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the mistreatment of ethnic Chinese in Indonesia and the 
        criminal acts carried out against them during the May 1998 riots 
        in Indonesia are deplorable and condemned;
            (2) a full and fair investigation of such criminal acts 
        should be completed by the earliest possible date, and those 
        identified as responsible for perpetrating such criminal acts 
        should be brought to justice;
            (3) the investigation by the Government of Indonesia, 
        through its Military Honor Council, of those members of the 
        armed forces of Indonesia suspected of possible involvement in 
        the May 1998 riots, and of any member of the armed forces of 
        Indonesia who may have participated in criminal acts against the 
        people of Indonesia during the riots, is commended and should be 
        supported;
            (4) the Government of Indonesia should take action to 
        assure--
                    (A) the implementation of appropriate measures to 
                prevent ethnic-related violence and rapes in Indonesia 
                and to protect the human rights and physical safety of 
                the ethnic Chinese community in Indonesia; and
                    (B) the provision of just compensation for victims 
                of the rape and violence that occurred during the May 
                1998 riots in Indonesia, including medical care;
            (5) the Administration and the United Nations should 
        continue to support and assist the Government of Indonesia and 
        nongovernmental organizations, in the investigations into the 
        May 1998 riots in Indonesia in order to expedite such 
        investigations.

    (d) Report.--(1) Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a report 
containing the following:
            (A) An assessment of--
                    (i) whether or not there was a systematic and 
                organized campaign of violence, including the use of 
                rape, against the ethnic Chinese community in Indonesia 
                during the May 1998 riots in Indonesia; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-215]]

                    (ii) the level and degree of participation, if any, 
                of members of the Government or armed forces of 
                Indonesia in the riots.
            (B) An assessment of the actions taken by the Government of 
        Indonesia to investigate the May 1998 riots in Indonesia, bring 
        the perpetrators of the riots to justice, and ensure that 
                           similar riots do not recur.

    Sec. 594. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2753 note.>> (a) Notification.--No less 
than 15 days prior to the export to any country identified pursuant to 
subparagraph (C) of any lethal defense article or service in the amount 
of $14,000,000 or less, the President shall provide a detailed 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations 
of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and International 
Relations of the House of Representatives.

    (b) Content of Notification.--A detailed notification transmitted 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) shall include the same type and quantity of 
information required of a notification submitted pursuant to section 
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(b)).
    (c) Countries Defined.--This section shall apply to any country that 
is--
            (1) identified in section 521 of the annual appropriations 
        Act for Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs, or a comparable provision in a subsequent 
        appropriations Act; or
            (2) currently ineligible, in whole or in part, under an 
        annual appropriations Act to receive funds for International 
        Military Education and Training or under the Foreign Military 
        Financing Program, excluding high-income countries as defined 
        pursuant to section 546(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961.

    (d) Exclusions.--Information reportable under title V of the 
National Security Act of 1947 is excluded from the requirements of this 
                                section.

    Sec. 595. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings--
            (1) the December 2, 1980 brutal assault and murder of four 
        American churchwomen by members of the Salvadoran National Guard 
        was covered up and never fully investigated;
            (2) on July 22 and July 23, 1998, Salvadoran authorities 
        granted three of the National Guardsmen convicted of the crimes 
        early release from prison;
            (3) the United Nations Truth Commission for El Salvador 
        determined in 1993 that there was sufficient evidence that the 
        Guardsmen were acting on orders from their superiors;
            (4) in March 1998, four of the convicted Guardsmen confessed 
        that they acted after receiving orders from their superiors;
            (5) recently declassified documents from the State 
        Department show that United States Government officials were 
        aware of information suggesting the involvement of superior 
        officers in the murders;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-216]]

            (6) United States officials granted permanent residence to a 
        former Salvadoran military official involved in the cover-up of 
        the murders, enabling him to remain in Florida; and
            (7) despite the fact that the murders occurred over 17 years 
        ago, the families of the four victims continue to seek the 
        disclosure of information relevant to the murders.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) information relevant to the murders should be made 
        public to the fullest extent possible;
            (2) the Secretary of State and the Department of State are 
        to be commended for fully releasing information regarding the 
        murders to the victims' families and to the American public, in 
        prompt response to congressional requests;
            (3) the President should order all other Federal agencies 
        and departments that possess relevant information to make every 
        effort to declassify and release to the victims' families 
        relevant information as expeditiously as possible;
            (4) in making determinations concerning the declassification 
        and release of relevant information, the Federal agencies and 
        departments should presume in favor of releasing, rather than of 
        withholding, such information; and
            (5) the President should direct the Attorney General to 
        review the circumstances under which individuals involved in 
        either the murders or the cover-up of the murders obtained 
        residence in the United States, and the Attorney General should 
        submit a report to the Congress on the results of such review 
                         not later than January 1, 1999.

    Sec. 596. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On December 21, 1988, 270 people, including 189 United 
        States citizens, were killed in a terrorist bombing on Pan Am 
        Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.
            (2) Britain and the United States indicted 2 Libyan 
        intelligence agents--Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa 
        Fhimah--in 1991 and sought their extradition from Libya to the 
        United States or the United Kingdom to stand trial for this 
        heinous terrorist act.
            (3) The United Nations Security Council called for the 
        extradition of the suspects in Security Council Resolution 731 
        and imposed sanctions on Libya in Security Council Resolutions 
        748 and 883 because Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Qadaffi, 
        refused to transfer the suspects to either the United States or 
        the United Kingdom to stand trial.
            (4) The sanctions in Security Council Resolutions 748 and 
        883 include a worldwide ban on Libya's national airline, a ban 
        on flights into and out of Libya by other nations' airlines, a 
        prohibition on supplying arms, airplane parts, and certain oil 
        equipment to Libya, and a freeze on Libyan government funds in 
        other countries.
            (5) Colonel Qaddafi has continually refused to extradite the 
        suspects to either the United States or the United Kingdom and 
        has insisted that he will only transfer the suspects to a third 
        and neutral country to stand trial.
            (6) On August 24, 1998, the United States and the United 
        Kingdom proposed that Colonel Qadaffi transfer the suspects

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-217]]

        to the Netherlands, where they would stand trial before a 
        Scottish court, under Scottish law, and with a panel of Scottish 
        judges.
            (7) The United States-United Kingdom proposal is consistent 
        with those previously endorsed by the Organization of African 
        Unity, the League of Arab States, the Non-Aligned Movement, and 
        the Islamic Conference.
            (8) The United Nations Security Council endorsed the United 
        States-United Kingdom proposal on August 27, 1998, in United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 1192.
            (9) The United States Government has stated that this 
        proposal is nonnegotiable and has called on Colonel Qadaffi to 
        respond promptly, positively, and unequivocally to this proposal 
        by ensuring the timely appearance of the two accused individuals 
        in the Netherlands for trial before the Scottish court.
            (10) The United States Government has called on Libya to 
        ensure the production of evidence, including the presence of 
        witnesses before the court, and to comply fully with all the 
        requirements of the United Nations Security Council resolutions.
            (11) Secretary of State Albright has said that the United 
        States will urge a multilateral oil embargo against Libya in the 
        United Nations Security Council if Colonel Muammar Qadaffi does 
        not transfer the suspects to the Netherlands to stand trial.
            (12) The United Nations Security Council will convene on 
        October 30, 1998, to review sanctions imposed on Libya.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) Colonel Qadaffi should promptly transfer the indicted 
        suspects Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah to the 
        Netherlands to stand trial before the Scottish court;
            (2) the United States Government should remain firm in its 
        commitment not to negotiate with Colonel Qadaffi on any of the 
        details of the proposal approved by the United Nations in United 
        Nations Security Council Resolution 1192; and
            (3) if Colonel Qadaffi does not transfer the indicted 
        suspects Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah to the 
        Netherlands by October 29,
1998, the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations 
should--
                    (A) introduce a resolution in the United Nations 
                Security Council to impose a multilateral oil embargo 
                against Libya;
                    (B) actively promote adoption of the resolution by 
                the United Nations Security Council; and
                    (C) assure that a vote will occur in the United 
                     Nations Security Council on such a resolution.

    Sec. 597. (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) many children in the United States have been abducted by 
        family members who are foreign nationals and living in foreign 
        countries;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-218]]

            (2) children who have been abducted by an estranged father 
        are very rarely returned, through legal remedies, from countries 
        that only recognize the custody rights of the father;
            (3) there are at least 140 cases that need to be resolved in 
        which children have been abducted by family members and taken to 
        foreign countries;
            (4) although the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
        International Child Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 
        1980, has made progress in aiding the return of abducted 
        children, the Convention does not address the criminal aspects 
        of child abduction, and there is a need to reach agreements 
        regarding child abduction with countries that are not parties to 
        the Convention; and
            (5) decisions on awarding custody of children should be made 
        in the children's best interest, and persons who violate laws of 
        the United States by abducting their children should not be 
        rewarded by being granted custody of those children.

    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States Government should promote international cooperation in 
working to resolve those cases in which children in the United States 
are abducted by family members who are foreign nationals and taken to 
foreign countries, and in seeing that justice is served by holding 
accountable the abductors for violations of criminal law.

          TITLE VI--INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL PROGRAMS AND REFORM

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

    For an increase in the United States quota in the International 
Monetary Fund, the dollar equivalent of 10,622,500,000 Special Drawing 
               Rights, to remain available until expended.

    For loans to the International Monetary Fund under section 17 of the 
Bretton Woods Agreements Act pursuant to the New Arrangements to Borrow, 
the dollar equivalent of 2,462,000,000 Special Drawing Rights, to remain 
available until expended. In addition, the amounts appropriated by title 
III of the Foreign Aid and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1963 
(Public Law 87-872) and section 1101(b) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1984 (Public Law 98-181) may also be used under 
section 17 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act pursuant to the New 
Arrangements to Borrow.

                     General Provisions--This Title

    Sec. 601. None of the funds appropriated in this title may be 
obligated or made available to the International Monetary Fund

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-219]]

until 15 days after the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System jointly provide 
written notification to the appropriate committees that the major 
shareholders of the Fund have publicly agreed to, and will act to 
implement in the Fund the following policies:
            (1) Policies providing that conditions in standby or other 
        arrangements regarding the use of Fund resources include, in 
        addition to appropriate monetary policy conditions, requirements 
        that the recipient country, in accordance with a schedule for 
        action--
                    (A) liberalize restrictions on trade in goods and 
                services, consistent with the terms of all international 
                trade agreements of which the borrowing country is a 
                signatory;
                    (B) eliminate the systemic practice or policy of 
                government directed lending on non-commercial terms or 
                provision of market distorting subsidies to favored 
                industries, enterprises, parties, or institutions; and
                    (C) provide a legal basis for nondiscriminatory 
                treatment in insolvency proceedings between domestic and 
                foreign creditors, and for debtors and other concerned 
                persons.
            (2) Policies providing that within 3 months after any 
        meeting of the Executive Board of the Fund at which a Letter of 
        Intent, a Policy Framework Paper, an Article IV economic review 
        consultation with a member country, or a change in a general 
        policy of the Fund is discussed, a full written summary of the 
        meeting should be made available for public inspection, with the 
        following information redacted:
                    (A) Information which, if released, would adversely 
                affect the national security of a country, and which is 
                of the type that would be classified by the United 
                States Government.
                    (B) Market-sensitive information.
                    (C) Proprietary information.
            (3) Policies providing that within 3 months after any 
        meeting of the Executive Board of the Fund at which a Letter of 
        Intent, a Memorandum of Understanding, or a Policy Framework 
        Paper is discussed, a copy of the Letter of Intent, Memorandum 
        of Understanding, or Policy Framework Paper should be made 
        available for public inspection with the following information 
        redacted:
                    (A) Information which, if released, would adversely 
                affect the national security of a country, and which is 
                of the type that would be classified by the United 
                States Government.
                    (B) Market-sensitive information.
                    (C) Proprietary information.
            (4) Policies providing that, in circumstances where a 
        country is experiencing balance of payments difficulties due to 
        a large short-term financing need resulting from a sudden and 
        disruptive loss of market confidence and in order to provide an 
        incentive for early repayment and encourage private market 
        financing, loans made from the Fund's general resources after 
        the date of the enactment of this section are--
                    (A) made available at an interest rate that reflects 
                an adjustment for risk that is not less than 300 basis 
                points in excess of the average of the market-based 
                short-term cost of financing of its largest members; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-220]]

                    (B) repaid within 1 to 2\1/2\ years from each 
                                      disbursement.

    Sec. 602. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to 
exert the influence of the United States to oppose further disbursement 
of funds to the Republic of Korea under the Republic of Korea's standby 
arrangement of December 4, 1997 (in this section referred to as the 
``Arrangement''), unless there is in effect a certification by the 
Secretary of the Treasury to the appropriate committees that--
            (1) no Fund resources made available pursuant to the 
        Arrangement have been used to provide financial assistance to 
        the semiconductor, steel, automobile, shipbuilding, or textile 
        and apparel industries;
            (2) the Fund has neither guaranteed nor underwritten the 
        private loans of semiconductor, steel, automobile, shipbuilding, 
        or textile and apparel manufacturers under the Arrangement; and
            (3) officials from the Fund and the Department of the 
        Treasury have monitored the implementation of the provisions 
        contained in the Arrangement, and all of the conditions have 
        either been met or the Republic of Korea has committed itself to 
        fulfill all of these conditions according to an explicit 
        timetable for completion; which timetable has been provided to 
        the Fund and the Department of the Treasury and approved by the 
        Fund.

    (b) Before each disbursement of Fund resources to the Republic of 
Korea under the Arrangement, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report 
to the appropriate committees on whether a certification by the 
           Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) is in effect.

     <<NOTE: Establishment. 22 USC 262r note<plus-minus>.>> Sec. 603. 
(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish an 
International Financial Institution Advisory Commission (in this section 
referred to as the ``Commission'').

    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of 11 
        members, as follows:
                    (A) 3 members appointed by the Speaker of the House 
                of Representatives.
                    (B) 3 members appointed by the Majority Leader of 
                the Senate.
                    (C) 5 members appointed jointly by the Minority 
                Leader of the House of Representatives and the Minority 
                Leader of the Senate.
            (2) Timing of appointments.--All appointments to the 
        Commission shall be made not later than 45 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Chairman.--The Majority Leader of the Senate, after 
        consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
        and the Minority Leaders of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate, shall designate 1 of the members of the Commission to 
        serve as Chairman of the Commission.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-221]]

    (c) Qualifications.--
            (1) Expertise.--Members of the Commission shall be appointed 
        from among those with knowledge and expertise in the workings of 
        the international financial institutions (as defined in section 
        1701(c)(2) of the International Financial Institutions Act), the 
        World Trade Organization, and the Bank for International 
        Settlements.
            (2) Former affiliation.--At least 4 members of the 
        Commission shall be individuals who were officers or employees 
        of the Executive Branch before January 20, 1992, and not more 
        than half of such 4 members shall have served under Presidents 
        from the same political party.

    (d) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.--Members shall be appointed 
for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be 
filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
    (e) Duties of the Commission.--The Commission shall advise and 
report to the Congress on the future role and responsibilities of the 
international financial institutions (as defined in section 1701(c)(2) 
of the International Financial Institutions Act), the World Trade 
Organization, and the Bank for International Settlements. In carrying 
out such duties, the Commission shall meet with and advise the Secretary 
of the Treasury or the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, and shall 
examine--
            (1) the effect of globalization, increased trade, capital 
        flows, and other relevant factors on such institutions;
            (2) the adequacy, efficacy, and desirability of current 
        policies and programs at such institutions as well as their 
        suitability for respective beneficiaries of such institutions;
            (3) cooperation or duplication of functions and 
        responsibilities of such institutions; and
            (4) other matters the Commission deems necessary to make 
        recommendations pursuant to subsection (g).

    (f) Powers and Procedures of the Commission.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Commission or, at its direction, any 
        panel or member of the Commission may, for the purpose of 
        carrying out the provisions of this section, hold hearings, sit 
        and act at times and places, take testimony, receive evidence, 
        and administer oaths to the extent that the Commission or any 
        panel or member considers advisable.
            (2) Information.--The Commission may secure directly 
        information that the Commission considers necessary to enable 
        the Commission to carry out its responsibilities under this 
        section.
            (3) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairman.

    (g) Report.--On the termination of the Commission, the Commission 
shall submit to the Secretary of the Treasury and the appropriate 
committees a report that contains recommendations regarding the 
following matters:
            (1) Changes to policy goals set forth in the Bretton Woods 
        Agreements Act and the International Financial Institutions Act.
            (2) Changes to the charters, organizational structures, 
        policies and programs of the international financial 
        institutions (as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the 
        International Financial Institutions Act).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-222]]

            (3) Additional monitoring tools, global standards, or 
        regulations for, among other things, global capital flows, 
        bankruptcy standards, accounting standards, payment systems, and 
        safety and soundness principles for financial institutions.
            (4) Possible mergers or abolition of the international 
        financial institutions (as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the 
        International Financial Institutions Act), including changes to 
        the manner in which such institutions coordinate their policy 
        and program implementation and their roles and responsibilities.
            (5) Any additional changes necessary to stabilize 
        currencies, promote continued trade liberalization and to avoid 
        future financial crises.

    (h) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 6 months after the 
first meeting of the Commission, which shall be not later than 30 days 
after the appointment of all members of the Commission.
    (i) Reports by the Executive Branch.--
            (1) Within three months after receiving the report of the 
        Commission under subsection (g), the President of the United 
        States through the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the 
        appropriate committees on the desirability and feasibility of 
        implementing the recommendations contained in the report.
            (2) Annually, for three years after the termination of the 
        Commission, the President of the United States through the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees a report on the steps taken, if any, through relevant 
        international institutions and international fora to implement 
        such recommendations as are deemed feasible and desirable under 
                                 paragraph (1).

    Sec. 604. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to exert 
the influence of the United States to seek the establishment of a 
permanent advisory committee to the Interim Committee of the Board of 
Governors of the Fund, that is to consist of elected members of the 
national legislatures of the member countries directly represented by 
appointed members of the Executive Board of the Fund, and to seek to 
ensure that the permanent advisory committee has the same access to Fund 
      documents as is afforded to the Executive Board of the Fund.

    Sec. 605. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to 
exert the influence of the United States to strengthen Fund procedures 
for ascertaining that funds disbursed by the Fund are used by the 
central bank (or other fiscal agent) of a borrowing country in a manner 
that complies with the conditions of the Fund program for the country.
    (b) On request of the appropriate committees, the United States 
Executive Director shall obtain from the Fund and make available to such 
committees, on a confidential basis if necessary, data concerning such 
compliance.
    (c) Within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the appropriate

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-223]]

committees on the progress made toward achieving the requirements of 
this section.
    (d) On a quarterly basis, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report 
to the appropriate committees on the standby or other arrangements of 
the Fund made during the preceding quarter, identifying separately the 
arrangements to which the policies described in section 601(4) of this 
  title apply and the arrangements to which such policies do not apply.

    Sec. 606. Not later than <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r note.>> July 15, 1999, 
and July 15, 2000, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the 
Chairmen and Ranking Members of the appropriate committees on the 
progress of efforts to reform the architecture of the international 
monetary system. The reports shall include a discussion of the substance 
of the United States position in consultations with other governments 
and the degree of progress in achieving international acceptance and 
implementation of such position with respect to the following issues:
            (1) Adapting the mission and capabilities of the 
        International Monetary Fund to take better account of the 
        increased importance of cross-border capital flows in the world 
        economy and improving the coordination of its responsibilities 
        and activities with those of the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development.
            (2) Advancing measures to prevent, and improve the 
        management of, international financial crises, including by--
                    (A) integrating aspects of national bankruptcy 
                principles into the management of international 
                financial crises where feasible; and
                    (B) changing investor expectations about official 
                rescues, thereby reducing moral hazard and systemic risk 
                in international financial markets,
        in order to help minimize the adjustment costs that the 
        resolution of financial crises may impose on the real economy, 
        in the form of disrupted patterns of trade, employment, and 
        progress in living standards, and reduce the frequency and 
        magnitude of claims on United States taxpayer resources.
            (3) Improving international economic policy cooperation, 
        including among the Group of Seven countries, to take better 
        account of the importance of cross-border capital flows in the 
        determination of exchange rate relationships.
            (4) Improving international cooperation in the supervision 
        and regulation of financial institutions and markets.
            (5) Strengthening the financial sector in emerging 
        economies, including by improving the coordination of financial 
        sector liberalization with the establishment of strong public 
        and private institutions in the areas of prudential supervision, 
        accounting and disclosure conventions, bankruptcy laws and 
        administrative procedures, and the collection and dissemination 
        of economic and financial statistics, including the maturity 
        structure of foreign indebtedness.
            (6) Advocating that implementation of European Economic and 
        Monetary Union and the advent of the European Currency Unit, or 
        euro, proceed in a manner that is consistent with

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-224]]

        strong global economic growth and stability in world financial 
                                    markets.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r note. participation in quota increase>> Sec. 
607. For purposes of sections 601 through 606 of this title, the term 
``appropriate committees'' means the Committees on Appropriations, 
Foreign Relations, and Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
and the Committees on Appropriations and Banking and Financial Services 
                    of the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 608. The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286mm) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 61. <<NOTE: 22 USC 286e-1m.>> QUOTA INCREASE.

    ``(a) In General.--The United States Governor of the Fund may 
consent to an increase in the quota of the United States in the Fund 
equivalent to 10,622,500,000 Special Drawing Rights.
    ``(b) Subject to Appropriations.--The authority provided by 
subsection (a) shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts 
          as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.''.

    Sec. 609. Section 17 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 
286e-2 et seq.) <<NOTE: 22 USC 286e-2.>>  is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``and February 24, 1983'' and 
                inserting ``February 24, 1983, and January 27, 1997''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``4,250,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``6,712,000,000'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``4,250,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``6,712,000,000''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Decision of January 27, 
                1997,'' after ``February 24, 1983,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or the New Arrangements to 
                  Borrow, as applicable'' before the period at the end.

    Sec. 610. (a) In General.--Title XV of the International Financial 
Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262o-262o-1) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 1503. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262o-2.>> ADVOCACY OF POLICIES TO ENHANCE 
            THE GENERAL EFFECTIVENESS OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY 
            FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund to 
use aggressively the voice and vote of the Executive Director to do the 
following:
            ``(1) Vigorously promote policies to increase the 
        effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund in structuring 
        programs and assistance so as to promote policies and actions

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-225]]

        that will contribute to exchange rate stability and avoid 
        competitive devaluations that will further destabilize the 
        international financial and trading systems.
            ``(2) Vigorously promote policies to increase the 
        effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund in promoting 
        market-oriented reform, trade liberalization, economic growth, 
        democratic governance, and social stability through--
                    ``(A) establishing an independent monetary 
                authority, with full power to conduct monetary policy, 
                that provides for a non-inflationary domestic currency 
                that is fully convertible in foreign exchange markets;
                    ``(B) opening domestic markets to fair and open 
                internal competition among domestic enterprises by 
                eliminating inappropriate favoritism for small or large 
                businesses, eliminating elite monopolies, creating and 
                effectively implementing anti-trust and anti-monopoly 
                laws to protect free competition, and establishing fair 
                and accessible legal procedures for dispute settlement 
                among domestic enterprises;
                    ``(C) privatizing industry in a fair and equitable 
                manner that provides economic opportunities to a broad 
                spectrum of the population, eliminating government and 
                elite monopolies, closing loss-making enterprises, and 
                reducing government control over the factors of 
                production;
                    ``(D) economic deregulation by eliminating 
                inefficient and overly burdensome regulations and 
                strengthening the legal framework supporting private 
                contract and intellectual property rights;
                    ``(E) establishing or strengthening key elements of 
                a social safety net to cushion the effects on workers of 
                unemployment and dislocation; and
                    ``(F) encouraging the opening of markets for 
                agricultural commodities and products by requiring 
                recipient countries to make efforts to reduce trade 
                barriers.
            ``(3) Vigorously promote policies to increase the 
        effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund, in concert 
        with appropriate international authorities and other 
        international financial institutions (as defined in section 
        1701(c)(2)), in strengthening financial systems in developing 
        countries, and encouraging the adoption of sound banking 
        principles and practices, including the development of laws and 
        regulations that will help to ensure that domestic financial 
        institutions meet strong standards regarding capital reserves, 
        regulatory oversight, and transparency.
            ``(4) Vigorously promote policies to increase the 
        effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund, in concert 
        with appropriate international authorities
and other international financial institutions (as defined in section 
1701(c)(2)), in facilitating the development and implementation of 
internationally acceptable domestic bankruptcy laws and regulations in 
developing countries, including the provision of technical assistance as 
appropriate.
            ``(5) Vigorously promote policies that aim at appropriate 
        burden-sharing by the private sector so that investors and 
        creditors bear more fully the consequences of their decisions, 
        and accordingly advocate policies which include--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-226]]

                    ``(A) strengthening crisis prevention and early 
                warning signals through improved and more effective 
                surveillance of the national economic policies and 
                financial market development of countries (including 
                monitoring of the structure and volume of capital flows 
                to identify problematic imbalances in the inflow of 
                short and medium term investment capital, potentially 
                destabilizing inflows of offshore lending and foreign 
                investment, or problems with the maturity profiles of 
                capital to provide warnings of imminent economic 
                instability), and fuller disclosure of such information 
                to market participants;
                    ``(B) accelerating work on strengthening financial 
                systems in emerging market economies so as to reduce the 
                risk of financial crises;
                    ``(C) consideration of provisions in debt contracts 
                that would foster dialogue and consultation between a 
                sovereign debtor and its private creditors, and among 
                those creditors;
                    ``(D) consideration of extending the scope of the 
                International Monetary Fund's policy on lending to 
                members in arrears and of other policies so as to foster 
                the dialogue and consultation referred to in 
                subparagraph (C);
                    ``(E) intensified consideration of mechanisms to 
                facilitate orderly workout mechanisms for countries 
                experiencing debt or liquidity crises;
                    ``(F) consideration of establishing ad hoc or formal 
                linkages between the provision of official financing to 
                countries experiencing a financial crisis and the 
                willingness of market participants to meaningfully 
                participate in any stabilization effort led by the 
                International Monetary Fund;
                    ``(G) using the International Monetary Fund to 
                facilitate discussions between debtors and private 
                creditors to help ensure that financial difficulties are 
                resolved without inappropriate resort to public 
                resources; and
                    ``(H) the International Monetary Fund accompanying 
                the provision of funding to countries experiencing a 
                financial crisis resulting from imprudent borrowing with 
                efforts to achieve a significant contribution by the 
                private creditors, investors, and banks which had 
                extended such credits.
            ``(6) Vigorously promote policies that would make the 
        International Monetary Fund a more effective mechanism, in 
        concert with appropriate international authorities and other 
        international financial institutions (as defined in section 
        1701(c)(2)), for promoting good governance principles within 
        recipient countries by fostering structural reforms, including 
        procurement reform, that reduce opportunities for corruption and 
        bribery, and drug-related money laundering.
            ``(7) Vigorously promote the design of International 
        Monetary Fund programs and assistance so that governments that 
        draw on the International Monetary Fund channel public funds 
        away from unproductive purposes, including large `show case' 
        projects and excessive military spending, and toward investment 
        in human and physical capital as well as social programs to 
        protect the neediest and promote social equity.
            ``(8) Work with the International Monetary Fund to foster 
        economic prescriptions that are appropriate to the individual 
        economic circumstances of each recipient country, recognizing 
        that inappropriate stabilization programs may only serve to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-227]]

        further destabilize the economy and create unnecessary economic, 
        social, and political dislocation.
            ``(9) Structure International Monetary Fund programs and 
        assistance so that the maintenance and improvement of core labor 
        standards are routinely incorporated as an integral goal in the 
        policy dialogue with recipient countries, so that--
                    ``(A) recipient governments commit to affording 
                workers the right to exercise internationally recognized 
                core worker rights, including the right of free 
                association and collective bargaining through unions of 
                their own choosing;
                    ``(B) measures designed to facilitate labor market 
                flexibility are consistent with such core worker rights; 
                and
                    ``(C) the staff of the International Monetary Fund 
                surveys the labor market policies and practices of 
                recipient countries and recommends policy initiatives 
                that will help to ensure the maintenance or improvement 
                of core labor standards.
            ``(10) Vigorously promote International Monetary Fund 
        programs and assistance that are structured to the maximum 
        extent feasible to discourage practices which may promote ethnic 
        or social strife in a recipient country.
            ``(11) Vigorously promote recognition by the International 
        Monetary Fund that macroeconomic developments and policies can 
        affect and be affected by environmental conditions and policies, 
        and urge the International Monetary Fund to encourage member 
        countries to pursue macroeconomic stability while promoting 
        environmental protection.
            ``(12) Facilitate greater International Monetary Fund 
        transparency, including by enhancing accessibility of the 
        International Monetary Fund and its staff, fostering a more open 
        release policy toward working papers, past evaluations, and 
        other International Monetary Fund documents, seeking to publish 
        all Letters of Intent to the International Monetary Fund and 
        Policy Framework Papers, and establishing a more open release 
        policy regarding Article IV consultations.
            ``(13) Facilitate greater International Monetary Fund 
        accountability and enhance International Monetary Fund self-
        evaluation by vigorously promoting review of the effectiveness 
        of the Office of Internal Audit and Inspection and the Executive 
        Board's external evaluation pilot program and, if necessary, the 
        establishment of an operations evaluation department modeled on 
        the experience of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
        Development, guided by such key principles as usefulness, 
        credibility, transparency, and independence.
            ``(14) Vigorously promote coordination with the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other 
        international financial institutions (as defined in section 
        1701(c)(2)) in promoting structural reforms which facilitate the 
        provision of credit to small businesses, including 
        microenterprise lending, especially in the world's poorest, 
        heavily indebted countries.

    ``(b) Coordination With Other Executive Departments.--To the extent 
that it would assist in achieving the goals described in subsection (a), 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall pursue the goals in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
Administrator of the Agency

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-228]]

for International Development, and the United States Trade 
Representative.''.
    (b) Advisory Committee on IMF Policy.--Section 1701 of such Act (22 
U.S.C. 262p-5) <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r.>>  is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

    ``(e) Advisory Committee on IMF Policy.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury should 
        establish an International Monetary Fund Advisory Committee (in 
        this subsection referred to as the `Advisory Committee').
            ``(2) Membership.--The Advisory Committee should consist of 
        members appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury, after 
        appropriate consultations with the relevant organizations. Such 
        members should include representatives from industry, 
        representatives from agriculture, representatives from organized 
        labor, representatives from banking and financial services, and 
        representatives from nongovernmental environmental and human 
                            rights organizations.''.

    Sec. 611. Title XIV of the International Financial Institutions Act 
(22 U.S.C. 262n-262n-2) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1404. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262n-3.>> REDUCTION OF BARRIERS TO 
            AGRICULTURAL TRADE.

    ``The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States 
Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to use 
aggressively the voice and vote of the United States to vigorously 
promote policies to encourage the opening of markets for agricultural 
commodities and products by requiring recipient countries to make 
                  efforts to reduce trade barriers.''.

    Sec. 612. Title XVII of the International Financial Institutions Act 
(22 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1704. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r-3.>> REPORTS ON FINANCIAL STABILIZATION 
            PROGRAMS LED BY THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND IN 
            CONNECTION WITH FINANCING FROM THE EXCHANGE STABILIZATION 
            FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Commerce and other appropriate Federal agencies, 
shall prepare reports on the implementation of financial stabilization 
programs (and any material terms and conditions thereof) led by the 
International Monetary Fund in countries in connection with which the 
United States has made a commitment to provide, or has provided 
financing from the stabilization fund established under section 5302 of 
title 31, United States Code. The reports shall include the following:
            ``(1) A description of the condition of the economies of 
        countries requiring the financial stabilization programs, 
        including the monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate policies of 
        the countries.
            ``(2) A description of the degree to which the countries 
        requiring the financial stabilization programs have fully

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-229]]

        implemented financial sector restructuring and reform measures 
        required by the International Monetary Fund, including--
                    ``(A) ensuring full respect for the commercial 
                orientation of commercial bank lending;
                    ``(B) ensuring that governments will not intervene 
                in bank management and lending decisions (except in 
                regard to prudential supervision);
                    ``(C) the enactment and implementation of 
                appropriate financial reform legislation;
                    ``(D) strengthening the domestic financial system 
                and improving transparency and supervision; and
                    ``(E) the opening of domestic capital markets.
            ``(3) A description of the degree to which the countries 
        requiring the financial stabilization programs have fully 
        implemented reforms required by the International Monetary Fund 
        that are directed at corporate governance and corporate 
        structure, including--
                    ``(A) making nontransparent conglomerate practices 
                more transparent through the application of 
                internationally accepted accounting practices, 
                independent external audits, full disclosure, and 
                provision of consolidated statements; and
                    ``(B) ensuring that no government subsidized support 
                or tax privileges will be provided
to bail out individual corporations, particularly in the semiconductor, 
steel, and paper industries.
            ``(4) A description of the implementation of reform measures 
        required by the International Monetary Fund to deregulate and 
        privatize economic activity by ending domestic monopolies, 
        undertaking trade liberalization, and opening up restricted 
        areas of the economy to foreign investment and competition.
            ``(5) A detailed description of the trade policies of the 
        countries, including any unfair trade practices or adverse 
        effects of the trade policies on the United States.
            ``(6) A description of the extent to which the financial 
        stabilization programs have resulted in appropriate burden-
        sharing among private sector creditors, including rescheduling 
        of outstanding loans by lengthening maturities, agreements on 
        debt reduction, and the extension of new credit.
            ``(7) A description of the extent to which the economic 
        adjustment policies of the International Monetary Fund and the 
        policies of the government of the country adequately balance the 
        need for financial stabilization, economic growth, environmental 
        protection, social stability, and equity for all elements of the 
        society.
            ``(8) Whether International Monetary Fund involvement in 
        labor market flexibility measures has had a negative effect on 
        core worker rights, particularly the rights of free association 
        and collective bargaining.
            ``(9) A description of any pattern of abuses of core worker 
        rights in recipient countries.
            ``(10) The amount, rate of interest, and disbursement and 
        repayment schedules of any funds disbursed from the 
        stabilization fund established under section 5302 of title 31, 
        United States Code, in the form of loans, credits, guarantees, 
        or swaps, in support of the financial stabilization programs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-230]]

            ``(11) The amount, rate of interest, and disbursement and 
        repayment schedules of any funds disbursed by the International 
        Monetary Fund to the countries in support of the financial 
        stabilization programs.

    ``(b) Timing.--Not later than March 15, 1999, and semiannually 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees 
on Banking and Financial Services and International Relations of the 
House of Representatives and the Committees on Foreign Relations, and 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report on the 
                 matters described in subsection (a).''.

    Sec. 613. Title XVII of the International Financial Institutions Act 
(22 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 1705. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r-4.>> ANNUAL REPORT AND TESTIMONY ON THE 
            STATE OF THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM, IMF REFORM, AND 
            COMPLIANCE WITH IMF AGREEMENTS.

    ``(a) Reports.--Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate a written report on the progress (if any) made 
by the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary 
Fund in influencing the International Monetary Fund to adopt the 
policies and reform its internal procedures in the manner described in 
section 1503.
    ``(b) Testimony.--After submitting the report required by subsection 
(a) but not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall appear before the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services of
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate and present testimony on--
            ``(1) any progress made in reforming the International 
        Monetary Fund;
            ``(2) the status of efforts to reform the international 
        financial system; and
            ``(3) the compliance of countries which have received 
        assistance from the International Monetary Fund with agreements 
               made as a condition of receiving the assistance.''.

    Sec. 614. Title XVII of the International Financial Institutions Act 
(22 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:

`` <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r-5.>> SEC. 1706. AUDITS OF THE INTERNATIONAL 
            MONETARY FUND.

    ``(a) Access to Materials.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
certify to the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
that the Secretary has instructed the United States Executive Director 
at the International Monetary Fund to facilitate timely access by the 
General Accounting Office to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-231]]

information and documents of the International Monetary Fund needed by 
the Office to perform financial reviews of the International Monetary 
Fund that will facilitate the conduct of United States policy with 
respect to the Fund.
    ``(b) Reports.--Not later than June 30, 1999, and annually 
thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare 
and submit to the committees specified in subsection (a), the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate a report on the financial operations of the 
Fund during the preceding year, which shall include--
            ``(1) the current financial condition of the International 
        Monetary Fund;
            ``(2) the amount, rate of interest, disbursement schedule, 
        and repayment schedule for any loans that were initiated or 
        outstanding during the preceding calendar year, and with respect 
        to disbursement schedules, the report shall identify and discuss 
        in detail any conditions required to be fulfilled by a borrower 
        country before a disbursement is made;
            ``(3) a detailed description of whether the trade policies 
        of borrower countries permit free and open trade by the United 
        States and other foreign countries in the borrower countries;
            ``(4) a detailed description of the export policies of 
        borrower countries and whether the policies may result in 
        increased export of their products, goods, or services to the 
        United States which may have significant adverse effects on, or 
        result in unfair trade practices against or affecting United 
        States companies, farmers, or communities;
            ``(5) a detailed description of any conditions of 
        International Monetary Fund loans which have not been met by 
        borrower countries, including a discussion of the reasons why 
        such conditions were not met, and the actions taken by the 
        International Monetary Fund due to the borrower country's 
        noncompliance;
            ``(6) an identification of any borrower country and loan on 
        which any loan terms or conditions were renegotiated in the 
        preceding calendar year, including a discussion of the reasons 
        for the renegotiation and any new loan terms and conditions; and
            ``(7) a specification of the total number of loans made by 
        the International Monetary Fund from its inception through the 
        end of the period covered by the report, the number and 
        percentage (by number) of such loans that are in default or 
        arrears, and the identity of the countries in default or 
        arrears, and the number of such loans that are outstanding as of 
        the end of period covered by the report and the aggregate amount 
        of the outstanding loans and the average yield (weighted by loan 
        principal) of the historical and outstanding loan portfolios of 
        the International Monetary Fund.''.
      This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1999''.
      (e) For programs, projects or activities in the Department of the 
Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as 
follows, to be effective as if it had been enacted into law as the 
regular appropriations Act:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-232]]

                   TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, in 
the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction of 
the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration of 
the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands pursuant 
to Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $619,311,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $2,082,000 shall be available for 
assessment of the mineral potential of public lands in Alaska pursuant 
to section 1010 of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150); and of which 
$3,000,000 shall be derived from the special receipt account established 
by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
460l-6a(i)); and of which $1,500,000 shall be available in fiscal year 
1999 subject to a match by at least an equal amount by the National Fish 
and Wildlife Foundation, to such Foundation for cost-shared projects 
supporting conservation of Bureau lands; in addition, $32,650,000 for 
Mining Law Administration program operations, including the cost of 
administering the mining claim fee program; to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited 
to this appropriation from annual mining claim fees so as to result in a 
final appropriation estimated at not more than $619,311,000, and 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, from communication site 
rental fees established by the Bureau for the cost of administering 
communication site activities: Provided, That appropriations herein made 
shall not be available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild 
     horses and burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors.

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, suppression 
operations, emergency rehabilitation; and hazardous fuels reduction by 
the Department of the Interior, $286,895,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $6,950,000 shall be for the renovation 
or construction of fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from 
which funds were previously transferred for such purposes: Provided 
further, That unobligated balances of amounts previously appropriated to 
the ``Fire Protection'' and ``Emergency Department of the Interior 
Firefighting Fund'' may be transferred and merged with this 
appropriation: Provided further, That persons hired pursuant to 43 
U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging without cost from 
funds available from this appropriation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a Bureau or office of 
the Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered pursuant to 
42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., Protection of United States Property, may be 
credited to the appropriation from which funds were expended

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-233]]

to provide that protection, and are available without fiscal year 
                               limitation.

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, including 
associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, pollutants, or 
contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the Department pursuant to section 107 or 113(f) 
of such Act, shall be credited to this account
to be available until expended without further appropriation: Provided 
further, That such sums recovered from or paid by any party are not 
limited to monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other 
personal or real property, which may be retained, liquidated, or 
otherwise disposed of by the Secretary and which shall be credited to 
                              this account.

    For construction of buildings, recreation facilities, roads, trails, 
and appurtenant facilities, $10,997,000, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 6901-6907), $125,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided, That 
no payment shall be made to otherwise eligible units of local government 
        if the computed amount of the payment is less than $100.

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) of 
Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition of 
lands or waters, or interests therein, $14,600,000, to be derived from 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-of-
way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including existing 
connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; $97,037,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the 
aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year from the 
revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby made a 
charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and shall be 
transferred

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-234]]

to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance with the second 
paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 
                             (50 Stat. 876).

    In addition to the purposes authorized in Public Law 102-381, funds 
made available in the Forest Ecosystem Health and Recovery Fund can be 
used for the purpose of planning, preparing, and monitoring salvage 
timber sales and forest ecosystem health and recovery activities such as 
release from competing vegetation and density control treatments. The 
Federal share of receipts (defined as the portion of salvage timber 
receipts not paid to the counties under 43 U.S.C. 1181f and 43 U.S.C. 
1181f-1 et seq., and Public Law 103-66) derived from treatments funded 
by this account shall be deposited into the Forest Ecosystem Health and 
                             Recovery Fund.

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent of 
all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 
of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall be 
                 available for administrative expenses.

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be collected 
under Public Law 94-579, as amended, and Public Law 93-153, to remain 
available until <<NOTE: 43 USC 1735 note. miscellaneous trust 
funds>> expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision to the 
contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any 
moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to that section, 
whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if not 
appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 
1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended under the authority of 
this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, or rehabilitate any 
public lands administered through the Bureau of Land Management which 
have been damaged by the action of a resource developer, purchaser, 
permittee, or any unauthorized person, without regard to whether all 
moneys collected from each such action are used on the exact lands 
damaged which led to the action: Provided further, That any such moneys 
that are in excess of amounts needed

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-235]]

to repair damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be 
               used to repair other damaged public lands.

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
     section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau; 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities 
authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing either 
in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator is 
capable of meeting accepted quality standards.
    Section 28f(a) of title 30, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the first sentence and inserting, ``The holder of each 
unpatented mining claim, mill, or tunnel site, located pursuant to the 
mining laws of the United States, whether located before or after the 
enactment of this Act, shall pay to the Secretary of the Interior, on or 
before September 1 of each year for years 1999 through 2001, a claim 
maintenance fee of $100 per claim or site.''
    Section 28f(d) of title 30, United States Code, is amended by adding 
the following new subsection at the end:
            ``(3) If a small miner waiver application is determined to 
        be defective for any reason, the claimant shall have a period of 
        60 days after receipt of written notification of the defect or 
        defects by the Bureau of Land Management to: (A) cure such 
        defect or defects, or (B) pay the $100 claim maintenance fee due 
        for such period.''.

    Section 28g of title 30, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``and before September 30, 1998'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``and 
before September 30, 2001''.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, for scientific and economic studies, conservation, management, 
investigations, protection, and utilization of fishery and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-236]]

wildlife resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, maintenance of 
the herd of long-horned cattle on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources by direct expenditure, contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public 
and private entities, $661,136,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2000, except as otherwise provided herein, of which $11,648,000 
shall remain available until expended for operation and maintenance of 
fishery mitigation facilities constructed by the Corps of Engineers 
under the Lower Snake River Compensation Plan, authorized by the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1976, to compensate for loss of fishery 
resources from water development projects on the Lower Snake River, and 
of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be provided to local governments 
in southern California for planning associated with the Natural 
Communities Conservation Planning (NCCP) program and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not less than $1,000,000 for 
high priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as 
amended: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,756,000 shall be used 
for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of section 4 of the 
Endangered Species Act, as amended, for species that are indigenous to 
the United States (except for processing petitions, developing and 
issuing proposed and final regulations, and taking any other steps to 
implement actions described in subsections (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or 
(c)(2)(B)(ii)): Provided further, That of the amount available for law 
enforcement, up to $400,000 to remain available until expended, may at 
the discretion of the Secretary, be used for payment for information, 
rewards, or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the 
Service, and miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activity, authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be 
accounted <<NOTE: 16 USC 718k.>> for solely on his certificate: Provided 
further, That hereafter, all fees collected for Federal migratory bird 
permits shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, to be used for the expenses of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service in administering such Federal migratory bird permits, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That <<NOTE: 16 USC 
746a. construction>> hereafter, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701 and 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary shall charge reasonable 
fees for the full costs of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 
operating and maintaining the M/V Tiglax and other vessels, to be 
credited to this account and to be available until expended: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided for environmental contaminants, up 
to $1,000,000 may remain available until expended for contaminant sample 
                                analyses.

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, and 
utilization of fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition of 
lands and interests therein; $50,453,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That under this heading in Public Law 105-174, the 
word ``fire,'' is inserted before the word ``floods''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-237]]

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
$48,024,000, to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and 
to remain available until expended, of which $1,000,000, together with 
such other sums as may become available, is for a grant to the State of 
Ohio for acquisition of the Howard Farm near Metzger Marsh in the State 
                                of Ohio.

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended, $14,000,000, to 
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, 
                 and to remain available until expended.

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
                       U.S.C. 715s), $10,779,000.

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, as amended, 
            $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

    For necessary expenses of the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation 
           Fund, $800,000, to remain available until expended.

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 4241-4245, 
and 1538), the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-
96), and the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
5301-5306), $2,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That unexpended balances of amounts previously appropriated to the 
African Elephant Conservation Fund, Rewards and Operations account, and 
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund may be transferred to and merged 
with this appropriation: Provided further, <<NOTE: 16 USC 
4246. administrative provisions>> That in fiscal year 1999 and 
thereafter, donations to provide assistance under section 5304 of the 
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act, subchapter I of the African 
Elephant Conservation Act, and section 6 of the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 shall be deposited to this Fund and shall be 
available without further appropriation: Provided further, That in 
fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, all penalties received by the United 
States under 16 U.S.C. 4224 which are not used to pay rewards under 16 
U.S.C. 4225 shall be deposited to this Fund to provide assistance under 
16 U.S.C. 4211 and shall be available without further appropriation: 
Provided further, That in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, not more than 
three percent of amounts appropriated to this Fund

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-238]]

  may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to administer the Fund.

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 104 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 89 are for replacement only 
(including 38 for police-type use); repair of damage to public roads 
within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of the 
Service; options for the purchase of land at not to exceed $1 for each 
option; facilities incident to such public recreational uses on 
conservation areas as are consistent with their primary purpose; and the 
maintenance and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities 
under the jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United States has 
title, and which are used pursuant to law in connection with management 
and investigation of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service may, under cooperative cost 
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share at least one-half the cost 
of printing either in cash or services and the Service determines the 
cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality standards: Provided 
further, That the Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements 
for existing aircraft: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior may not spend any of the 
funds appropriated in this Act for the purchase of lands or interests in 
lands to be used in the establishment of any new unit of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System unless the purchase is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in Senate Report 105-56: Provided 
further, That hereafter the Secretary may sell land and interests in 
land, other than surface water rights, acquired in conformance with 
subsections 206(a) and 207(c) of Public Law 101-618, the receipts of 
which shall be deposited to the Lahontan Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish 
and Wildlife Fund and used exclusively for the purposes of such 
subsections, without regard to the limitation on the distribution of 
benefits in subsection 206(f)(2) of such law: <<NOTE: 16 USC 
1374. technical corrections>>  Provided further, That section 
104(c)(50)(B) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1361-1407) 
is amended by inserting the words ``until expended'' after the word 
                  ``Secretary'' in the second sentence.

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 3503 note.>> Unit SC-03--
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall, before the end of 
        the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, make such corrections to the map described in paragraph (2) 
        as are necessary to ensure that depictions of areas on that map 
        are consistent with the depictions of areas appearing on the map 
        entitled ``Amendments to the Coastal Barrier Resources System'', 
        dated May 15, 1997, and on file with the Committee on Resources 
        of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The map described in this paragraph is the map that--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-239]]

                    (A) is included in a set of maps entitled ``Coastal 
                Barrier Resources System'', dated October 24, 1990; and
                    (B) relates to unit SC-03 of the Coastal Barrier 
                Resources System.

    Unit FL-35P--
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall, before the end of 
        the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, make such corrections to the map described in paragraph (2) 
        as are necessary to ensure that depictions of areas on that map 
        are consistent with the depictions of areas appearing on the map 
        entitled ``Amendments to the Coastal Barrier Resources System'', 
        dated August 31, 1998, and on file with the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The map described in this paragraph is the map that--
                    (A) is included in a set of maps entitled ``Coastal 
                Barrier Resources System'', dated October 24, 1990; and
                    (B) relates to unit FL-35P of the Coastal Barrier 
                Resources System.

    Unit FL-35--
            The Secretary of the Interior shall, before the end of the 
        30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, revise the the map depicting unit FL-35 of the Coastal 
        Barrier Resources System to exclude Pumpkin Key from the System.

                          National Park Service

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not less than $1,000,000 for 
high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which 
shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation
Corps as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706, $1,285,604,000, of which not less 
than $600,000 is for salaries and expenses by, at, and exclusively for 
new hires of mineral examiners on site at the Mojave National Preserve, 
none of which may be used for staff or administrative expenses for the 
geological resources division in Denver, Colorado or any other location, 
and of which $12,800,000 is for research, planning and interagency 
coordination in support of land acquisition for Everglades restoration 
shall remain available until expended, and of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, is to be derived from 
the special fee account established pursuant to title V, section 5201 of 
                           Public Law 100-203.

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, 
statutory or contractual aid for other activities, and grant 
administration, not otherwise provided for, $46,225,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-240]]

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the Historic Preservation Act 
of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), and the Omnibus Parks and Public 
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333), $72,412,000, to be 
derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000, of which $7,000,000 pursuant to section 507 of 
Public Law 104-333 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
of the total amount provided, $30,000,000 shall be for Save America's 
Treasures for priority preservation projects, including preservation of 
intellectual and cultural artifacts and of historic structures and 
sites, of the National Archives and Records Administration and of 
Federal agencies to which funds were appropriated in the Fiscal Year 
1998 Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: Provided further, 
That individual Save America's Treasures grants shall be subject to a 
fifty percent non-Federal match, and shall be available by transfer to 
appropriate accounts of individual agencies, after approval of projects 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the agencies shall develop a 
common list of project selection criteria for Save America's Treasures 
which shall include national significance, urgency of need, and 
educational value, and which shall be approved by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations prior to any commitment of grant funds: 
Provided further, That individual projects shall only be eligible for 
one grant, and all projects to be funded shall be approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations prior to any commitment of grant 
funds: Provided further, That within the amount provided for Save 
America's Treasures, $3,000,000 shall be transferred immediately to the 
Smithsonian Institution for restoration of the Star Spangled Banner, 
$500,000 shall be available for the Sewall-Belmont House and sufficient 
funds to complete the restoration of the Declaration of Independence and 
the U.S. Constitution located in the National Archives: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided for Save America's Treasures 
may be used for administrative expenses, and staffing for the program 
shall be available from the existing staffing levels in the National 
                              Park Service.

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, including the modifications authorized by section 104 of the 
Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, 
$226,058,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$550,000 for the Susan B. Anthony House, $1,000,000 for the Virginia 
City Historic District, $2,000,000 for the Field Museum, $500,000 for 
the Hecksher Museum, $600,000 for the Sotterly Plantation House, 
$1,500,000 for the Kendall County Courthouse, $1,000,000 for the U-505, 
and $600,000 for the Wheeling National Heritage Area shall be derived 
     from the Historic Preservation Fund pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 470a.

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 1999 by <<NOTE: 16 
USC 460l-10a note. land acquisition and state assistance>> 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-241]]

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the National Park Service, $147,925,000, to be derived from the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended, of which 
$500,000 is to administer the State assistance program: Provided, That 
any funds made available for the purpose of acquisition of the Elwha and 
Glines dams shall be used solely for acquisition, and shall not be 
expended until the full purchase amount has been appropriated by the 
Congress: Provided further, That the Secretary may acquire interests in 
the property known as George Washington's Boyhood Home, Ferry Farm, from 
the funds provided under this heading without regard to any restrictions 
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965: Provided further, 
That from the funds made available for land acquisition at Everglades 
National Park and Big Cypress National Preserve, the Secretary may 
provide for Federal assistance to the State of Florida for the 
acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, within the 
Everglades watershed (consisting of lands and waters within the 
boundaries of the South Florida Water Management District, Florida Bay 
and the Florida Keys) under terms and conditions deemed necessary by the 
Secretary, to improve and restore the hydrological function of the 
Everglades watershed: Provided further, That funds provided under this 
heading to the State of Florida are contingent upon new matching non-
Federal funds by the State and shall be subject to an agreement that the 
lands to be acquired will be managed in perpetuity for the restoration 
                           of the Everglades.

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 375 passenger motor vehicles, of which 291 
shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 305 for police-
type use, 12 buses, and 6 ambulances: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process any 
grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 
1913: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to the 
National Park Service may be used to implement an agreement for the 
redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island until such agreement 
has been submitted to the Congress and shall not be implemented prior to 
the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full and comprehensive report on the development of the southern 
end of Ellis Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon 
in support of the proposed project.
    None of the funds in this Act may be spent by the National Park 
Service for activities taken in direct response to the United Nations 
Biodiversity Convention.
    The National Park Service may distribute to operating units based on 
the safety record of each unit the costs of programs designed to improve 
workplace and employee safety, and to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-242]]

encourage employees receiving workers' compensation benefits pursuant to 
chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, to return to appropriate 
positions for which they are medically able.

                     United States Geological Survey

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, and the mineral and water resources of the United 
States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized 
by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their mineral and 
water resources; give engineering supervision to power permittees and 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; administer the minerals 
exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and publish and disseminate data 
relative to the foregoing activities; and to conduct inquiries into the 
economic conditions affecting mining and materials processing industries 
(30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and related purposes as 
authorized by law and to publish and disseminate data; $797,896,000, of 
which $69,596,000 shall be available only for cooperation with States or 
municipalities for water resources investigations; and of which 
$16,400,000 shall remain available until expended for conducting 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries; and of which $2,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for ongoing development of a mineral and geologic data 
base; and of which $161,221,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2000 for the biological research activity and the operation of the 
Cooperative Research Units: Provided, That of the funds available for 
the biological research activity, $6,600,000 shall be made available by 
grant to the University of Alaska for conduct of, directly or through 
subgrants, basic marine research activities in the North Pacific Ocean 
pursuant to a plan approved by the Department of Commerce, the 
Department of the Interior, and the State of Alaska: Provided further, 
That none of these funds provided for the biological research activity 
shall be used to conduct new surveys on private property, unless 
specifically authorized in writing by the property owner: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 43 USC 50. administrative provisions>> That no part of 
this appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the cost of 
topographic mapping or water resources data collection and 
investigations carried on in cooperation with States and municipalities.

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 53 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which 48 are for replacement only; reimbursement to the 
General Services Administration for security guard services; contracting 
for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the making of geophysical 
or other specialized surveys when it is administratively determined that 
such procedures are in the public interest; construction and maintenance 
of necessary buildings and appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands 
for gauging stations and observation wells; expenses of the United 
States National Committee on Geology; and payment of compensation and 
expenses of persons on the rolls of the Survey duly appointed to 
represent

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-243]]

the United States in the negotiation and administration of interstate 
compacts: Provided, That activities funded by appropriations herein made 
may be accomplished through the use of contracts, grants, or cooperative 
agreements as defined in 31 U.S.C. 6302 et seq.: Provided further, That 
the United States Geological Survey may contract directly with 
individuals or indirectly with institutions or nonprofit organizations, 
without regard to 41 U.S.C. 5, for the
temporary or intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
shall be considered employees for the purposes of chapters 57 and 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and 
work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, relating 
to tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal employees for 
any other purposes.

                       Minerals Management Service

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of royalties, 
as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations applicable to 
oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses and operating 
contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements; including 
the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only; $117,902,000, of which $72,729,000 shall be available 
for royalty management activities; and an amount not to exceed 
$100,000,000, to be credited to this appropriation and to remain 
available until expended, from additions to receipts resulting from 
increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, from rate increases to 
fee collections for Outer Continental Shelf administrative activities 
performed by the Minerals Management Service over and above the rates in 
effect on September 30, 1993, and from additional fees for Outer 
Continental Shelf administrative activities established after September 
30, 1993: Provided, That $3,000,000 for computer acquisitions shall 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be available for the payment of 
interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721(b) and (d): Provided further, 
That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable expenses 
related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup activities: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$15,000 under this heading shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Director of the Minerals Management Service concurred with the claimed 
refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or Tribes, or to 
             correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title IV, 
sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of the 
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,118,000, which shall be derived from the 
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-244]]

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 10 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; $93,078,000, and notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. <<NOTE: 30 USC 1302 note.>> 3302, an additional amount shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, from 
performance bond forfeitures in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, 
may use directly or through grants to States, moneys collected in fiscal 
year 1999 for civil penalties assessed under section 518 of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim 
lands adversely affected by coal mining practices after August 3, 1977, 
to remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
appropriations for the Office of <<NOTE: 30 USC 1211 note.>> Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement may provide for the travel and per 
diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training: Provided further, 
That beginning in fiscal year 1999 and <<NOTE: 30 USC 1302 
note.>> thereafter, cost-based fees for the products of the Mine Map 
Repository shall be established (and revised as needed) in Federal 
Register Notices, and shall be collected and credited to this account, 
to be available until expended for the costs of administering this 
                                program.

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as amended, 
including the purchase of not more than 10 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $185,416,000, to be derived from receipts of the 
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available until expended; 
of which up to $7,000,000, to be derived from the cumulative balance of 
interest earned to date on the Fund, shall be for supplemental grants to 
States for the reclamation of abandoned sites with acid mine rock 
drainage from coal mines, and for associated activities, through the 
Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative: Provided, That grants to minimum 
program States will be $1,500,000 per State in fiscal year 1999: 
Provided further, That of the funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 
may be used for the emergency program authorized by section 410 of 
Public Law 95-87, as amended, of which no more than 25 percent shall be 
used for emergency reclamation projects in any one State and funds for 
federally administered emergency reclamation projects under this proviso 
shall not exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year 
unobligated funds appropriated for the emergency reclamation program 
shall not be subject to the 25 percent limitation per State and may be 
used without fiscal year limitation for emergency projects: Provided 
further, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the 
Interior is authorized to use up to 20 percent from the recovery of the 
delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts: Provided further, That funds made 
available to States under title IV of Public Law 95-87 may be used, at 
their discretion, for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-245]]

for the purpose of environmental restoration related to treatment or 
abatement of acid mine drainage from abandoned mines: Provided further, 
That such projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities 
of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act: Provided further, 
That the State of Maryland may set aside the greater of $1,000,000 or 10 
percent of the total of the grants made available to the State under 
title IV of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, as 
amended (30 U.S.C. 1231 et seq.), if the amount set aside is deposited 
in an acid mine drainage abatement and treatment fund established under 
a State law, pursuant to which law the amount (together with all 
interest earned on the amount) is expended by the State to undertake 
acid mine drainage abatement and treatment projects, except that before 
any amounts greater than 10 percent of its title IV grants are deposited 
in an acid mine drainage abatement and treatment fund, the State of 
Maryland must first complete all Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act priority one projects: <<NOTE: 30 USC 1231 note.>>  Provided 
further,That hereafter, donations received to support projects under the 
Appalachian Clean Streams Initiative and under the Western Mine Lands 
Restoration Partnerships Initiative, pursuant to 30 U.S.C. 1231, shall 
be credited to this account and remain available until expended without 
further appropriation for projects sponsored under these initiatives, 
directly through agreements with other Federal agencies, or through 
grants to States, and funding to local governments, or tax exempt 
private entities.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), as amended, the Education Amendments of 
1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 
1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), as amended, $1,584,124,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000 except as otherwise provided herein, 
of which not to exceed $94,010,000 shall be for welfare assistance 
payments and notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
not to exceed $114,871,000 shall be available for payments to tribes and 
tribal organizations for contract support costs associated with ongoing 
contracts, grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements entered into 
with the Bureau prior to or during fiscal year 1999, as authorized by 
such Act, except that tribes and tribal organizations may use their 
tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of ongoing 
contracts, grants, or compacts, or annual funding agreements and for 
unmet welfare assistance costs, and of which not to exceed $387,365,000 
for school operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education 
programs shall become available on July 1, 1999, and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000; and of which not to exceed 
$52,889,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation support, self-
governance grants, the Indian Self-Determination Fund, land records 
improvement, the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not limited to 
the Indian

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-246]]

Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, and 25 U.S.C. 2008, not to 
exceed $42,160,000 within and only from such amounts made available for 
school operations shall be available to tribes and tribal organizations 
for administrative cost grants associated with the operation 
of <<NOTE: 25 USC 450j note.>> Bureau-funded schools: Provided further, 
That hereafter funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations 
through contracts, compact agreements, or grants, as authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 or grants authorized by the Indian 
Education Amendments of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2001 and 2008A) shall remain 
available until expended by the contractor or grantee: Provided further, 
That hereafter, to provide funding uniformity within a Self-Governance 
Compact, any funds provided in this Act with availability for more than 
two years may be reprogrammed to two year availability but shall remain 
available within the Compact until expended: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 25 USC 13d-3.>> That hereafter notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, Indian tribal governments may, by appropriate 
changes in eligibility criteria or by other means, change eligibility 
for general assistance or change the amount of general assistance 
payments for individuals within the service area of such tribe who are 
otherwise deemed eligible for general assistance payments so long as 
such changes are applied in a consistent manner to individuals similarly 
situated and, that any savings realized by such changes shall be 
available for use in meeting other priorities of the tribes and, that 
any net increase in costs to the Federal Government which result solely 
from tribally increased payment levels for general assistance shall be 
met exclusively from funds available to the tribe from within its tribal 
priority allocation: Provided further, That any forestry funds allocated 
to a tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 2000, may be 
transferred during fiscal year 2001 to an Indian forest land assistance 
account established for the benefit of such tribe within the tribe's 
trust fund account: Provided further, That any such unobligated balances 
not so transferred shall expire on September 30, 2001: Provided further, 
That hereafter tribes <<NOTE: 25 USC 2005 note. construction>> may use 
tribal priority allocations funds for the replacement and repair of 
school facilities in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 2005(a), so long as such 
replacement or repair is approved by the Secretary and completed with 
non-Federal tribal and/or tribal priority allocation funds: Provided 
further, That the sixth proviso under Operation of Indian Programs in 
Public Law 102-154, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992 (105 
Stat. 1004), is hereby amended to read as follows: ``Provided further, 
That until such time as legislation is enacted to the contrary, no funds 
shall be used to take land into trust within the boundaries of the 
original Cherokee territory in Oklahoma without consultation with the 
                           Cherokee Nation:''.

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of irrigation 
and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands, and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, and 
for construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant to 
Public Law 87-483, $123,421,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such amounts as may be available for the construction of 
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project may be transferred to the Bureau of 
Reclamation: Provided

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-247]]

further, That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau: Provided 
further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams program pursuant 
to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a nonreimbursable basis: 
Provided further, That for fiscal year 1999, in implementing new 
construction or facilities improvement and repair project grants in 
excess of $100,000 that are provided to tribally controlled grant 
schools under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost 
Principles for Assistance Programs contained in 43 CFR part 12 as the 
regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such grants shall not be 
subject to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the Secretary and the grantee shall 
negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work to be 
performed: Provided further, That in considering applications, the 
Secretary shall consider whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization 
would be deficient in assuring that the construction projects conform to 
applicable building standards and codes and Federal, tribal, or State 
health and safety standards as required by 25 U.S.C. 2005(a), with 
respect to organizational and financial management capabilities: 
Provided further, That if the Secretary declines an application, the 
Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 25 U.S.C. 2505(f): 
Provided further, That any disputes between the Secretary and any 
grantee concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision in 
25 U.S.C. 2508(e): Provided further, That funds appropriated in Public 
Law 105-18, making emergency supplemental appropriations for the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs for the repair of irrigation projects damaged in the 
severe winter conditions and ensuing flooding, are available on a 
                         nonreimbursable basis.

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, $28,882,000, to remain available 
until expended; of which $27,530,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 101-618 and 102-575, and for implementation of 
other enacted water rights settlements; and of which $1,352,000 shall be 
available pursuant to Public Laws 99-264, 100-383, 103-402, and 100-580: 
Provided, That in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, the Secretary is 
directed to sell land and interests in land, other than surface water 
rights, acquired in conformance with section 2 of the Truckee River 
Water Quality Settlement Agreement, the receipts of which shall be 
deposited to the Lahontan Valley and Pyramid Lake Fish and Wildlife 
Fund, and be available for the purposes of section 2 of such agreement, 
without regard to the limitation on the distribution of benefits in the 
      second sentence of paragraph 206(f)(2) of Public Law 101-618.

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $4,501,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-248]]

as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $59,681,698.

    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
                        loan programs, $500,000.

      For implementation of a pilot program for consolidation of 
fractional interests in Indian lands by direct expenditure or 
cooperative agreement, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $250,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses: Provided, That the Secretary may enter into a cooperative 
agreement, which shall not be subject to Public Law 93-638, as amended, 
with a tribe having jurisdiction over the pilot reservation to implement 
the program to acquire fractional interests on behalf of such tribe: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may develop a reservation-wide 
system for establishing the fair market value of various types of lands 
and improvements to govern the amounts offered for acquisition of 
fractional interests: Provided further, That acquisitions shall be 
limited to one or more pilot reservations as determined by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That funds shall be available for 
acquisition of fractional interests in trust or restricted lands with 
the consent of its owners and at fair market value, and the Secretary 
shall hold in trust for such tribe all interests acquired pursuant to 
this pilot program: Provided further, That all proceeds from any lease, 
resource sale contract, right-of-way or other transaction derived from 
the fractional interest shall be credited to this appropriation, and 
remain available until expended, until the purchase price paid by the 
Secretary under this appropriation has been recovered from such 
proceeds: Provided further, That once the purchase price has been 
recovered, all subsequent proceeds shall be managed by the Secretary for 
   the benefit of the applicable tribe or paid directly to the tribe.

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program account) shall be available for 
expenses of exhibits, and purchase of not to exceed 229 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which not to exceed 187 shall be for replacement only.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office operations or pooled 
overhead general administration (except facilities operations and 
maintenance) shall be available for tribal contracts, grants, compacts, 
or cooperative agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the 
provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-
Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau, other than the amounts provided herein for assistance to 
public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-249]]

to support the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the 
State of Alaska.
    Appropriations made available in this or any other Act for schools 
funded by the Bureau shall be available only to the schools in the 
Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996. No funds available to the 
Bureau shall be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau school system as 
of October 1, 1995.

                          Departmental Offices

                             Insular Affairs

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $66,175,000, of which: 
(1) $62,326,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, 
insular management controls, and brown tree snake control and research; 
grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and expenses, 
as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of 
American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, for construction 
and support of governmental functions; grants to the Government of the 
Virgin Islands as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, 
as authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern 
Mariana Islands as authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); 
and (2) $3,849,000 shall be available for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Insular Affairs: Provided, <<NOTE: 48 USC 1469b. compact of 
free association>> That all financial transactions of the territorial 
and local governments herein provided for, including such transactions 
of all agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such 
governments, may be audited by the General Accounting Office, at its 
discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant 
funding shall be provided according to those terms of the Agreement of 
the Special Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance 
for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 99-396, or any 
subsequent legislation related to Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands grant funding: Provided further, That of the Covenant grant 
funding for the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands $5,000,000 
shall be used for the construction of prison facilities and $500,000 
shall be used for construction and equipping of a crime laboratory 
unless the Secretary determines that acceptable alternative financing 
for these projects is already in place: Provided further, That of the 
amounts provided for technical assistance, sufficient funding shall be 
made available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, 
That the funds for the program of operations and maintenance improvement 
are appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and maintenance 
improvement of capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the 
Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the 
Federated States of Micronesia through assessments of long-range 
operations maintenance needs, improved capability of local operations 
and maintenance institutions and agencies (including

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-250]]

management and vocational education training), and project-specific 
maintenance (with territorial participation and cost sharing to be 
determined by the Secretary based on the individual territory's 
commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): Provided 
further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under this 
heading in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-
Federal matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants 
provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
         Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compact of 
Free Association, and for economic assistance and necessary expenses for 
the Republic of Palau as provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, 
and 233 of the Compact of Free Association, $20,930,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by Public Law 99-239 and Public 
Law 99-658.

                         Departmental Management

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, $64,686,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 
shall be available for payments pursuant to section 123 of this Act and 
up to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers compensation payments 
and unemployment compensation payments associated with the orderly 
closure of the United States Bureau of Mines.

                         Office of the Solicitor

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $36,784,000.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$25,486,000.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

    For operation of trust programs for Indians by direct expenditure, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, $39,499,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds for trust 
management improvements may be transferred to the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs: Provided further, That funds made available to Tribes and 
Tribal organizations through contracts or grants obligated during fiscal 
year 1999, as authorized by the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-251]]

Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of 
limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, including any claim 
in litigation pending on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
concerning losses to or mismanagement of trust funds, until the affected 
tribe or individual Indian has been furnished with an accounting of such 
funds from which the beneficiary can determine whether there has been a 
loss: <<NOTE: 25 USC 4011 note.>> Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be required to 
provide a quarterly statement of performance for any Indian trust 
account that has not had activity for at least eighteen months and has a 
balance of $1.00 or less: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
issue an annual account statement and maintain a record of any such 
accounts and shall permit the balance in each such account to be 
withdrawn upon the express written request of the accountholder.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-380), and Public Law 101-337; $4,492,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That unobligated and unexpended 
balances in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Natural 
Resource Damage Assessment Fund account at the end of fiscal year 1998 
shall be transferred to and made a part of the Departmental Offices, 
Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration, Natural Resource 
Damage Assessment Fund account and shall remain available until 
                                expended.

      For necessary expenses of bureaus and offices of the Department of 
the Interior to manage federal lands in Alaska for subsistence uses 
under the provisions of Title VIII of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487 et seq.) except in areas described 
in section 339(a)(1)(A) and (B) of this Act, $8,000,000 to become 
available on September 30, 1999, and remain available until expended: 
Provided, That if prior to October 1, 1999, the Secretary of the 
Interior determines that the Alaska State Legislature has approved a 
bill or resolution to amend the Constitution of the State of Alaska 
that, if approved by the electorate, would enable the implementation of 
state laws of general applicability which are consistent with, and which 
provide for the definition, preference and participation specified in 
sections 803, 804, and 805 of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall make an $8,000,000 
grant to the State of Alaska for the purpose of assisting that State in 
fulfilling its responsibilities under sections 803, 804, and 805

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-252]]

of that Act: Provided further, That if, on June 1, 1999, the Secretary 
is unable to make a determination that the Alaska State Legislature has 
approved a bill or resolution to amend the Constitution of the State of 
Alaska that, if approved by the electorate, would enable the 
implementation of state laws of general applicability which are 
consistent with and which provide for the definition, preference and 
participation specified in sections 803, 804, and 805 of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act, $1,000,000 of these funds 
shall become available on June 1, 1999, and shall remain available until 
expended (with expended amounts to be subtracted from the amount that 
could be granted to the State), for the Secretary to conduct data 
gathering and research on subsistence uses, and formulate plans for 
operational aspects and in-season management, but not to implement and 
enforce subsistence use management beyond those public lands which as of 
October 1, 1998, were subject to federal management for subsistence uses 
pursuant to Title VIII of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act.

                        Administrative Provisions

      There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available 
resources within the Working Capital Fund, 15 aircraft, 10 of which 
shall be for replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase 
or through available excess surplus property: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, existing aircraft being 
replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to 
offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft: Provided 
further, That no programs funded with appropriated funds in the 
``Departmental Management'', ``Office of the Solicitor'', and ``Office 
of Inspector General'' may be augmented through the Working Capital Fund 
or the Consolidated Working Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

      Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.

    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer of 
any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for 
contingency planning subsequent

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-253]]

to actual oil spills; for response and natural resource damage 
assessment activities related to actual oil spills; for the prevention, 
suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper and Mormon 
cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
pursuant to the authority in section 1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 
Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation projects under section 410 of 
Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year funds available 
to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds 
as may be necessary to permit assumption of regulatory authority in the 
event a primacy State is not carrying out the regulatory provisions of 
the Surface Mining Act: Provided, That appropriations made in this title 
for fire suppression purposes shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred during the preceding fiscal year, and for 
reimbursement to other Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, 
aircraft, or other equipment in connection with their use for fire 
suppression purposes, such reimbursement to be credited to 
appropriations currently available at the time of receipt thereof: 
Provided further, That for emergency rehabilitation and wildfire 
suppression activities, no funds shall be made available under this 
authority until funds appropriated to ``Wildland Fire Management'' shall 
have been exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to 
this section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible: Provided further, That such replenishment funds shall be used 
to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds 
were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the Interior 
for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued for services or rentals 
for periods not in excess of twelve months beginning at any time during 
the fiscal year.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-254]]

    Sec. 107. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of northern, 
central, and southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 108. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore oil and natural 
gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities, on lands within the 
North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 109. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and natural gas 
preleasing, leasing and related activities in the eastern Gulf of Mexico 
planning area for any lands located outside Sale 181, as identified in 
the final Outer Continental Shelf 5-Year Oil and Gas Leasing Program, 
1997-2002.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct oil and natural gas preleasing, 
leasing and related activities in the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic 
planning areas.
    Sec. 111. Advance payments made under this title to Indian tribes, 
tribal organizations, and tribal consortia pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or 
the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) may 
be invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or consortium 
before such funds are expended for the purposes of the grant, compact, 
or annual funding agreement so long as such funds are--
            (1) invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or 
        consortium only in obligations of the United States, or in 
        obligations or securities that are guaranteed or insured by the 
        United States, or mutual (or other) funds registered with the 
        Securities and Exchange Commission and which only invest in 
        obligations of the United States or securities that are 
        guaranteed or insured by the United States; or
            (2) deposited only into accounts that are insured by an 
        agency or instrumentality of the United States, or are fully 
        collateralized to ensure protection of the Funds, even in the 
        event of a bank failure.

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: 50 USC 167 note.>> (a) Employees of Helium 
Operations, Bureau of Land Management, entitled to severance pay under 5 
U.S.C. 5595, may apply for, and the Secretary of the Interior may pay, 
the total amount of the severance pay to the employee in a lump sum. 
Employees paid severance pay in a lump sum and subsequently reemployed 
by the Federal Government shall be subject to the repayment provisions 
of 5 U.S.C. 5595(i)(2) and (3), except that any repayment shall be made 
to the Helium Fund.

    (b) Helium Operations employees who elect to continue health 
benefits after separation shall be liable for not more than the required 
employee contribution under 5 U.S.C. 8905a(d)(1)(A). The Helium Fund 
shall pay for 18 months the remaining portion of required contributions.
    (c) The Secretary of the Interior may provide for training to assist 
Helium Operations employees in the transition to other Federal or 
private sector jobs during the facility shut-down and disposition 
process and for up to 12 months following separation from

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-255]]

Federal employment, including retraining and relocation incentives on 
the same terms and conditions as authorized for employees of the 
Department of Defense in section 348 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995.
    (d) For purposes of the annual leave restoration provisions of 5 
U.S.C. 6304(d)(1)(B), the cessation of helium production and sales, and 
other related Helium Program activities shall be deemed to create an 
exigency of public business under, and annual leave that is lost during 
leave years 1997 through 2001 because of 5 U.S.C. 6304 (regardless of 
whether such leave was scheduled in advance) shall be restored to the 
employee and shall be credited and available in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 
6304(d)(2). Annual leave so restored and remaining unused upon the 
transfer of a Helium Program employee to a position of the executive 
branch outside of the Helium Program shall be liquidated by payment to 
the employee of a lump sum from the Helium Fund for such leave.
    (e) Benefits under this section shall be paid from the Helium Fund 
in accordance with section 4(c)(4) of the Helium Privatization Act of 
1996. Funds may be made available to Helium Program employees who are or 
will be separated before October 1, 2002 because of the cessation of 
helium production and sales and other related activities. Retraining 
benefits, including retraining and relocation incentives, may be paid 
for retraining commencing on or before September 30, 2002.
    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1473e.>> In fiscal year 1999 and 
thereafter, the Secretary may accept donations and bequests of money, 
services, or other personal property for the management and enhancement 
of the Department's Natural Resources Library. The Secretary may hold, 
use, and administer such donations until expended and without further 
appropriation.

    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
funds available under this title for Indian self-determination or self-
governance contract or grant support costs may be expended only for 
costs directly attributable to contracts, grants and compacts pursuant 
to the Indian Self-Determination Act and no funds appropriated in this 
title shall be available for any contract support costs or indirect 
costs associated with any contract, grant, cooperative agreement, self-
governance compact or funding agreement entered into between an Indian 
tribe or tribal organization and any entity other than an agency of the 
Department of the Interior.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the National 
Park Service shall not develop or implement a reduced entrance fee 
program to accommodate non-local travel through a unit. The Secretary 
may provide for and regulate local non-recreational passage through 
units of the National Park System, allowing each unit to develop 
guidelines and permits for such activity appropriate to that unit.
    Sec. 116. (a) Denver Service Center, Presidio, and Golden Gate 
National Recreation Area employees who voluntarily resign or retire from 
the National Park Service on or before December 31, 1998, shall receive, 
from the National Park Service, a lump sum voluntary separation 
incentive payment that shall be equal to the lesser of an amount equal 
to the amount the employee would be entitled to receive under section 
5595(c) of title 5, United States Code,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-256]]

if the employee were entitled to payment under such section; or $25,000.
            (1) The voluntary separation incentive payment--
                    (A) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employee.
            (2) Employees receiving a voluntary separation incentive 
        payment and accepting employment with the Federal Government 
        within five years of the date of separation shall be required to 
        repay the entire amount of the incentive payment to the National 
        Park Service.
            (3) The Secretary may, at the request of the head of an 
        Executive branch agency, waive the repayment under paragraph (2) 
        if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the 
        only qualified applicant available for the position.
            (4) In addition to any other payment which it is required to 
        make under Subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United 
        States Code, the National Park Service shall remit to the Office 
        of Personnel Management for deposit in the Treasury of the 
        United States to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement and 
        Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 percent of the final basic 
        pay of each employee of the National Park Service--
                    (A) who retires under section 8336(d)(2) of Title 5, 
                United States Code; and,
                    (B) to whom a voluntary separation incentive payment 
                has been or is to be paid under the provisions of this 
                section.

    (b) Employees of Denver Service Center, Presidio, and Golden Gate 
National Recreation Area entitled to severance pay under 5 U.S.C. 5595, 
may apply for, and the National Park Service may pay, the total amount 
of severance pay to the employee in a lump sum. Employees paid severance 
pay in a lump sum and subsequently reemployed by the Federal Government 
shall be subject to the repayment provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5595(i)(2) and 
(3), except that any repayment shall be made to the National Park 
Service.
    (c) Employees of the Denver Service Center, Presidio, and Golden 
Gate National Recreation Area who voluntarily resign on or before 
December 31, 1998, or who are separated in a reduction in force, shall 
be liable for not more than the required employee contribution under 5 
U.S.C. 8905a(d)(1)(A) if they elect to continue health benefits after 
separation. The National Park Service shall pay for 12 months the 
remaining portion of required contributions.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
is authorized to permit persons, firms or organizations engaged in 
commercial, cultural, educational, or recreational activities (as 
defined in section 612a of title 40, United States Code) not currently 
occupying such space to use courtyards, auditoriums, meeting rooms, and 
other space of the main and south Interior building complex, Washington, 
D.C., the maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been 
delegated to the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services 
pursuant to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949, and to assess reasonable charges therefore, subject to such 
procedures as the Secretary deems appropriate for such uses. Charges may 
be for the space, utilities, maintenance, repair, and other services. 
Charges

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-257]]

for such space and services may be at rates equivalent to the prevailing 
commercial rate for comparable space and services devoted to a similar 
purpose in the vicinity of the main and south Interior building complex, 
Washington, D.C. for which charges are being assessed. The Secretary may 
without further appropriation hold, administer, and use such proceeds 
within the Departmental Management Working Capital Fund to offset the 
operation of the buildings under his jurisdiction, whether delegated or 
otherwise, and for related purposes, until expended.
    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460o note.>> The 37 mile River Valley Trail 
from the town of Delaware Gap to the edge of the town of Milford, 
Pennsylvania located within the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation 
Area shall hereafter be referred to in any law, regulation, document, or 
record of the United States as the Joseph M. McDade Recreational Trail.

    Sec. 119. (a) In this section--
            (1) the term ``Huron Cemetery'' means the lands that form 
        the cemetery that is popularly known as the Huron Cemetery, 
        located in Kansas City, Kansas, as described in subsection 
        (b)(3); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

    (b)(1) The Secretary shall take such action as may be necessary to 
ensure that the lands comprising the Huron Cemetery (as described in 
paragraph (3)) are used only in accordance with this subsection.
    (2) The lands of the Huron Cemetery shall be used only--
            (A) for religious and cultural uses that are compatible with 
        the use of the lands as a cemetery; and
            (B) as a burial ground.

    (3) The description of the lands of the Huron Cemetery is as 
follows:
    The tract of land in the NW quarter of sec. 10, T. 11 S., R. 25 E., 
of the sixth principal meridian, in Wyandotte County, Kansas (as 
surveyed and marked on the ground on August 15, 1888, by William Millor, 
Civil Engineer and Surveyor), described as follows:
            ``Commencing on the Northwest corner of the Northwest 
        Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 10;
            ``Thence South 28 poles to the `true point of beginning';
            ``Thence South 71 degrees East 10 poles and 18 links;
            ``Thence South 18 degrees and 30 minutes West 28 poles;
            ``Thence West 11 and one-half poles;
            ``Thence North 19 degrees 15 minutes East 31 poles and 15 
        feet to the `true point of beginning', containing 2 acres or 
        more.''.

    Sec. 120. (a) Study.--The Secretary shall enter into an agreement 
with and provide funding, to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the 
Board on Earth Sciences and Resources (Board), to conduct a detailed, 
comprehensive study of the environmental and reclamation requirements 
relating to mining of locatable minerals on federal lands and the 
adequacy of those requirements to prevent unnecessary or undue 
degradation of federal lands in each state in which such mining occurs.
            (1) Contents.--The study shall identify and consider--
                    (A) the operating, reclamation and permitting 
                requirements for locatable minerals mining and 
                exploration

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-258]]

                operations on federal lands by federal and state air, 
                water, solid waste, reclamation and other environmental 
                statutes, including surface management regulations 
                promulgated by federal land management agencies and 
                state primacy programs under applicable federal statutes 
                and state laws and the time requirements applicable to 
                project environmental review and permitting;
                    (B) the adequacy of federal and state environmental, 
                reclamation and permitting statutes and regulations 
                applicable in any state or states where mining or 
                exploration of locatable minerals on federal lands is 
                occurring, to prevent unnecessary or undue degradation; 
                and
                    (C) recommendations and conclusions regarding how 
                federal and state environmental, reclamation and 
                permitting requirements and programs can be coordinated 
                to ensure environmental protection, increase efficiency, 
                avoid duplication and delay, and identify the most cost-
                effective manner for implementation.

    (b) Report.--
            No later than July 31, 1999, the Board shall submit a report 
        addressing areas described under (a)(1) to the appropriate 
        federal agencies, the Congress and the Governors of affected 
        states.

    (c) Funds.--From the funds collected for mining law administration, 
the Secretary shall provide to the NAS such funds as it requests, not to 
exceed $800,000, for the purpose of conducting this analysis.
    (d) Surface Management Regulations.--The Secretary of the Interior 
shall not promulgate any final regulations to change the Bureau of Land 
Management regulations found at 43 CFR Part 3809 prior to September 30, 
1999.
    Sec. 121. Overhead charges levied by the Fish and Wildlife Service 
on any and all funds transferred from the Bureau of Reclamation for the 
Recovery Implementation Program for Endangered Fish Species in the Upper 
Colorado River Basin and for the Recovery Implementation Program for 
Endangered Fish Species in the San Juan River Basin shall be limited to 
no more than 50 percent of the biennially determined full indirect cost 
recovery rate.

    Sec. 122. (a) ANCSA Determination.--
            (1) Within 180 days following the enactment of this Act, the 
        Bureau of Land Management shall conduct a determination under 
        section 3(e) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) of the property described as Lot 1, Block 
        12; the north 50 feet of Lots 43 and 44, Block 12; Lots 50, 51 
        and 52, Block 12; Lots 28 and 29, Block 33; and a strip of land 
        25 feet in length running east and west by 24 feet in width 
        running north and south in the southwest corner of Lot 15, Block 
        33, all within the Nome Townsite, Records of the Cape Nome 
        Recording District, Second Judicial District, State of Alaska.
            (2) The ANCSA section 3(e) determination will determine if 
        the lands must be conveyed to the Sitnasuak Native Corporation 
        (the village corporation for Nome).
            (3) If and only if the Bureau of Land Management's ANCSA 
        section 3(e) determination concludes that the Sitnasuak Native 
        Corporation is not entitled to the lands, and following the 
        settlement of any and all claims filed appealing the decision,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-259]]

        the Secretary shall carry out subsection (b) of this section, 
        and the provisions of subsection (c) shall take effect.

    (b) Conveyance.--The Secretary shall convey to Kawerak, Inc., a non-
profit tribal organization in Nome, Alaska, without consideration, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States, subject to all valid 
existing rights and to the rights-of-way described in subsection (c), in 
the property described as Lot 1, Block 12; the north 50 feet of Lots 43 
and 44, Block 12; Lots 50, 51 and 52, Block 12; Lots 28 and 29, Block 
33; and a strip of land 25 feet in length running east and west by 24 
feet in width running north and south in the southwest corner of Lot 15, 
Block 33, all within the Nome Townsite, Records of the Cape Nome 
Recording District, Second Judicial District, State of Alaska.
    (c) Rights-of-Way.--The property conveyed under subsection (b) shall 
be subject to--
            (1) title of the State of Alaska, Department of Highways, as 
        to the south three feet of Lots 50, 51, and 52 of Block 12; and
            (2) rights of the public or of any governmental agencies in 
        and to any portion of the property lying within any roads, 
        streets, or highways.

    Sec. 123. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>>  Commercial Fishing in 
Glacier Bay National Park. (a) General.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior and the State of Alaska 
        shall cooperate in the development of a management plan for the 
        regulation of commercial fisheries in Glacier Bay National Park 
        pursuant to existing State and Federal statutes and any 
        applicable international conservation and management treaties. 
        Such management plan shall provide for commercial fishing in the 
        marine waters within Glacier Bay National Park outside of 
        Glacier Bay Proper, and in the marine waters within Glacier Bay 
        Proper as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(5), and 
        shall provide for the protection of park values and purposes, 
        for the prohibition of any new or expanded fisheries, and for 
        the opportunity for the study of marine resources.
            (2) In the nonwilderness waters within Glacier Bay Proper, 
        commercial fishing shall be limited, by means of non-
        transferable lifetime access permits, solely to individuals 
        who--
                    (A) hold a valid commercial fishing permit for a 
                fishery in a geographic area that includes the 
                nonwilderness waters within Glacier Bay Proper;
                    (B) provide a sworn and notarized affidavit and 
                other available corroborating documentation to the 
                Secretary of the Interior sufficient to establish that 
                such individual engaged in commercial fishing for 
                halibut, tanner crab, or salmon in Glacier Bay Proper 
                during qualifying years which shall be established by 
                the Secretary of the Interior within one year of the 
                date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (C) fish only with--
                          (i) longline gear for halibut;
                          (ii) pots or ring nets for tanner crab; or
                          (iii) trolling gear for salmon.
            (3) With respect to the individuals engaging in commercial 
        fishing in Glacier Bay Proper pursuant to paragraph (2), no 
        fishing shall be allowed in the West Arm of Glacier Bay Proper 
        (West Arm) north of 58 degrees, 50 minutes north latitude,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-260]]

        except for trolling for king salmon during the period from 
        October 1 through April 30. The waters of Johns Hopkins Inlet, 
        Tarr Inlet and Reid Inlet shall remain closed to all commercial 
        fishing.
            (4) With respect to the individuals engaging in commercial 
        fishing in Glacier Bay Proper pursuant to paragraph (2), no 
        fishing shall be allowed in the East Arm of Glacier Bay Proper 
        (East Arm) north of a line drawn from Point Caroline, through 
        the southern end of Garforth Island to the east side of Muir 
        Inlet, except that trolling for king salmon during the period 
        from October 1 through April 30 shall be allowed south of a line 
        drawn across Muir Inlet at the southernmost point of Adams 
        Inlet.
            (5) With respect to the individuals engaging in commercial 
        fishing in Glacier Bay Proper pursuant to paragraph (2), no 
        fishing shall be allowed in Geikie Inlet.

    (b) The Beardslee Islands and Upper Dundas Bay.--Commercial fishing 
is prohibited in the designated wilderness waters within Glacier Bay 
National Park and Preserve, including the waters of the Beardslee 
Islands and Upper Dundas Bay. Any individual who--
            (1) on or before February 1, 1999, provides a sworn and 
        notarized affidavit and other available corroborating 
        documentation to the Secretary of the Interior sufficient to 
        establish that he or she has engaged in commercial fishing for 
        Dungeness crab in the designated wilderness waters of the 
        Beardslee Islands or Dundas Bay within Glacier Bay National Park 
        pursuant to a valid commercial fishing permit in at least six of 
        the years during the period 1987 through 1996;
            (2) at the time of receiving compensation based on the 
        Secretary of the Interior's determination as described below--
                    (A) agrees in writing not to engage in commercial 
                fishing for Dungeness crab within Glacier Bay Proper;
                    (B) relinquishes to the State of Alaska for the 
                purposes of its retirement any commercial fishing permit 
                for Dungeness crab for areas within Glacier Bay Proper;
                    (C) at the individual's option, relinquishes to the 
                United States the Dungeness crab pots covered by the 
                commercial fishing permit; and
                    (D) at the individual's option, relinquishes to the 
                United States the fishing vessel used for Dungeness crab 
                fishing in Glacier Bay Proper; and
            (3) holds a current valid commercial fishing permit that 
        allows such individual to engage in commercial fishing for 
        Dungeness crab in Glacier Bay National Park,

shall be eligible to receive from the United States compensation that is 
the greater of (i) $400,000, or (ii) an amount equal to the fair market 
value (as of the date of
relinquishment) of the commercial fishing permit for Dungeness crab, of 
any Dungeness crab pots or other Dungeness crab gear, and of not more 
than one Dungeness crab fishing vessel, together with an amount equal to 
the present value of the foregone net income from commercial fishing for 
Dungeness crab for the period January 1, 1999, through December 31, 
2004, based on the individual's net earnings from the Dungeness crab 
fishery during the period January 1, 1991, through December 31, 1996. 
Any individual seeking such compensation shall provide the consent 
necessary for the Secretary of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-261]]

Interior to verify such net earnings in the fishery. The Secretary of 
the Interior's determination of the amount to be paid shall be completed 
and payment shall be made within six months from the date of application 
by the individuals described in this subsection and shall constitute 
final agency action subject to review pursuant to the Administrative 
Procedures Act in the United States District Court for the District of 
Alaska.

    (c) Definition and Savings Clause.--
            (1) As used in this section, the term ``Glacier Bay Proper'' 
        shall mean the marine waters within Glacier Bay, including coves 
        and inlets, north of a line drawn from Point Gustavus to Point 
        Carolus.
            (2) Nothing in this section is intended to enlarge or 
        diminish Federal or State title, jurisdiction, or authority with 
        respect to the waters of the State of Alaska, the waters within 
        the boundaries of Glacier Bay National Park, or the tidal or 
        submerged lands under any provision of State or Federal law.

    Sec. 124. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, grazing 
permits which expire during fiscal year 1999 shall be renewed for the 
balance of fiscal year 1999 on the same terms and conditions as 
contained in the expiring permits, or until the Bureau of Land 
Management completes processing these permits in compliance with all 
applicable laws, whichever comes first. Upon completion of processing by 
the Bureau, the terms and conditions of existing grazing permits may be 
modified, if necessary, and reissued for a term not to exceed ten years. 
Nothing in this language shall be deemed to affect the Bureau's 
authority to otherwise modify or terminate grazing permits.
    Sec. 125. Conveyance to the Town of Pahrump, Nevada. (a) 
Conveyance.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey to the town of Pahrump, 
Nevada, without consideration, subject to the requirements of 43 U.S.C. 
869, all right, title, and interest of the land subject to all valid 
existing rights in the public lands located south and west of Highway 
160 within Sections
32 and 33, T. 20 S., R. 54 E., Mount Diablo Meridian.

    (b) Use.--The conveyance of the property under subsection (a) shall 
be subject to reversion to the United States if the property is used for 
a purpose other than the purpose of a public fairground or a related 
public purpose.
    Sec. 126. Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 78, regarding 
commercial air tour operators in the vicinity of the Rocky Mountain 
National Park, as published in the Federal Register on January 8, 1997, 
shall remain in effect until otherwise provided by an Act of Congress.
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3192a.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds provided in this Act or any other 
Act hereafter enacted may be used by the Secretary of the Interior, 
except with respect to land exchange costs and costs associated with the 
preparation of land acquisitions, in the acquisition of State, private, 
or other non-federal lands (or any interest therein) in the State of 
Alaska, unless, in the acquisition of any State, private, or other non-
federal lands (or interest therein) in the State of Alaska, the 
Secretary seeks to exchange unreserved public lands before purchasing 
all or any portion of such lands (or interest therein) in the State of 
Alaska.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-262]]

    Sec. 128. Charleston, <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> Arkansas National 
Commemorative Site. (a) The Congress finds that--
            (1) the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court decision of Brown v. Board 
        of Education, which mandated an end to the segregation of public 
        schools, was one of the most significant Court decisions in the 
        history of the United States;
            (2) the Charleston Public School District in Charleston, 
        Arkansas, in September, 1954, became the first previously-
        segregated public school district in the former Confederacy to 
        integrate following the Brown decision;
            (3) the orderly and peaceful integration of the public 
        schools in Charleston served as a model and inspiration in the 
        development of the Civil Rights movement in the United States, 
        particularly with respect to public education; and
            (4) notwithstanding the important role of the Charleston 
        School District in the successful implementation of integrated 
        public schools, the role of the district has not been adequately 
        commemorated and interpreted for the benefit and understanding 
        of the nation.

    (b) The Charleston Public School complex in Charleston, Arkansas is 
hereby designated as the ``Charleston National Commemorative Site'' in 
commemoration of the Charleston schools' role as the first public school 
district in the South to integrate following the 1954 United States 
Supreme Court decision, Brown v. Board of Education.
    (c) The Secretary, after consultation with the Charleston Public 
School District, shall establish an appropriate commemorative monument 
and interpretive exhibit at the Charleston National Commemorative Site 
to commemorate the 1954 integration of Charleston's public schools.
    Sec. 129. (a) In the event any tribe returns appropriations made 
available by this Act to the Bureau of
 Indian Affairs for distribution to other tribes, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, or 
the government-to-government relationship between the United States and 
that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future appropriations.

    (b) The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) shall develop alternative 
methods to fund tribal priority allocations (TPA) base programs in 
future years. The alternatives shall consider tribal revenues and 
relative needs of tribes and tribal members. No later than April 1, 
1999, the BIA shall submit a report to Congress containing its 
recommendations and other alternatives. The report shall also identify 
the methods proposed to be used by BIA to acquire data that is not 
currently available to BIA and any data gathering mechanisms that may be 
necessary to encourage tribal compliance. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for the purposes of developing recommendations, the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs is hereby authorized access to tribal revenue-
related data held by any Federal agency, excluding information held by 
the Internal Revenue Service.
    (c) Except as provided in subsection (d), tribal revenue shall 
include the sum of tribal net income, however derived, from any business 
venture owned, held, or operated, in whole or in part, by any tribal 
entity which is eligible to receive TPA on behalf of the members of any 
tribe, all amounts distributed as per capita payments which are not 
otherwise included in net income, and any income from fees, licenses or 
taxes collected by any tribe.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-263]]

    (d) The calculation of tribal revenues shall exclude payments made 
by the Federal Government in settlement of claims or judgments and 
income derived from lands, natural resources, funds, and assets held in 
trust by the Secretary of the Interior.
    (e) In developing alternative TPA distribution methods, the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs will take into account the financial obligations of a 
tribe, such as budgeted health, education and public works service 
costs; its compliance, obligations and spending requirements under the 
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act; its compliance with the Single Audit Act; 
and its compact with its State.

    Sec. 130. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be used 
to issue a notice of final rulemaking with respect to the valuation of 
crude oil for royalty purposes, including a rulemaking derived from 
proposed rules published in 63 Federal Register 6113 (1998), 62 Federal 
Register 36030, and 62 Federal Register 3742 (1997) until June 1, 1999, 
or until there is a negotiated agreement on the rule.

    Sec. 131. Up to $8,000,000 of funds available in fiscal years 1998 
and 1999 shall be available for grants, not covering more than 33 
percent of the total cost of any acquisition to be made with such funds, 
to States and local communities for purposes of acquiring lands or 
interests in lands to preserve and protect Civil War battlefield sites 
identified in the July 1993 Report on the Nation's Civil War 
Battlefields prepared by the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission. Lands 
or interests in lands acquired pursuant to this section shall be subject 
to the requirements of paragraph 6(f)(3) of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(f)(3)).

    Sec. 132. Leasing of Certain Reserved Mineral Interests. (a) 
Application of Mineral Leasing Act.--Notwithstanding section 4 of Public 
Law 88-608 (78 Stat. 988), the Federal reserved mineral interests in 
land conveyed under that Act by United States land patents No. 49-71-
0059 and No. 49-71-0065 shall be subject to the Act of February 25, 1920 
(commonly known as the ``Mineral Leasing Act'') (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.).
    (b) Entry.--
            (1) In general.--A person that acquires a lease under the 
        Act of February 25, 1920 (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) for the 
        interests referred to in subsection (a) may exercise the right 
        of entry that
 is reserved to the United States and persons authorized by the United 
States in the patents conveying the land described in subsection (a) by 
occupying so much of the surface the land as may be required for 
purposes reasonably incident to the exploration for, and extraction and 
removal of, the leased minerals.
            (2) Condition.--A person that exercises a right of entry 
        under paragraph (1), shall, before commencing occupancy--
                    (A) secure the written consent or waiver of the 
                patentee; or
                    (B) post a bond or other financial guarantee with 
                the Secretary of the Interior in an amount sufficient to 
                ensure--
                          (i) the completion of reclamation pursuant to 
                      the requirements of the Secretary under the Act of 
                      February 25, 1920 (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.); and
                          (ii) the payment to the surface owner for--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-264]]

                                    (I) any damage to a crop or tangible 
                                improvement of the surface owner that 
                                results from activity under the mineral 
                                lease; and
                                    (II) any permanent loss of income to 
                                the surface owner due to loss or 
                                impairment of grazing use or of other 
                                uses of the land by the surface owner at 
                                the time of commencement of activity 
                                under the mineral lease.

    (c) Effective Date.--In the case of the land conveyed by United 
States patent No. 49-71-0065, this section takes effect January 1, 1997.
    Sec. 133. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tribal 
Self-Governance Act (25 U.S.C. Sec. 458aa et seq.) <<NOTE: 25 USC 
458ff.>>  is amended at Sec. 458ff(c) by inserting ``450c(d),'' 
following the word ``sections''.

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 3503 note.>> Sec. 134. Correction to Coastal Barrier 
Resources System Map. (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall make 
such corrections to the map described in subsection (b) as are necessary 
to restore on that map the September 30, 1982, boundary for Unit M09 on 
the portion of Edisto Island located immediately to the south and west 
of the Jeremy Cay Causeway.

    (b) Map Described.--The map described in this subsection is the map 
included in a set of maps entitled ``Coastal Barrier Resources System'', 
dated October 24, 1990, that relates to the unit of the Coastal Barrier 
Resources System entitled ``Edisto Complex M09/M09P''.
     <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-1 note.>> Sec. 135. Katmai National Park Land 
Exchange. (a) Ratification of Agreement.--
            (1) Ratification.--
                    (A) In general.--The terms, conditions, procedures, 
                covenants, reservations, and other provisions set forth 
                in the document entitled ``Agreement for the Sale, 
                Purchase and Conveyance of Lands between the Heirs, 
                Designees and/or Assigns of Palakia Melgenak and the 
                United States of America'' (hereinafter referred to in 
                this section as the ``Agreement''), executed by its 
                signatories, including the heirs, designees and/or 
                assigns of Palakia Melgenak (hereinafter referred to in 
                this section as the ``Heirs'') effective on September 1, 
                1998 are authorized, ratified and confirmed, and set 
                forth the obligations and commitments of the United 
                States and all other signatories, as a matter of Federal 
                law.
                    (B) Native allotment.--Notwithstanding any provision 
                of law to the contrary, all lands described in section 
                2(c) of the Agreement for conveyance to the Heirs shall 
                be deemed a replacement transaction under ``An Act to 
                relieve restricted Indians in the Five Civilized Tribes 
                whose nontaxable lands are required for State, county or 
                municipal improvements or sold to other persons or for 
                other purposes'' (25 U.S.C. 409a, 46 Stat. 1471), as 
                amended, and the Secretary shall convey such lands by a 
                patent consistent with the terms of the Agreement and 
                subject to the same restraints on alienation and tax-
                exempt status as provided for Native allotments pursuant 
                to ``An Act authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to 
                allot homesteads to the natives of Alaska'' (34 Stat. 
                197), as amended, repealed by section 18(a) the Alaska 
                Native Claims

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-265]]

                Settlement Act (85 Stat. 710), with a savings clause for 
                applications pending on December 18, 1971.
                    (C) Land acquisition.--Lands and interests in land 
                acquired by the United States pursuant to the Agreement 
                shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior 
                (hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') as part 
                of the Katmai National Park, subject to the laws and 
                regulations applicable thereto.
            (2) Maps and deeds.--The maps and deeds set forth in the 
        Agreement generally depict the lands subject to the conveyances, 
        the retention of consultation rights, the conservation easement, 
        the access rights, Alaska Native Allotment Act status, and the 
        use and transfer restrictions.

    (b)  <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> Katmai National Park and Preserve 
Wilderness.--Upon the date of closing of the conveyance of the 
approximately 10 acres of Katmai National Park Wilderness lands to be 
conveyed to the Heirs under the Agreement, the following lands shall 
hereby be designated part of the Katmai Wilderness as designated by 
section 701(4) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 94 Stat. 2417):
        A strip of land approximately one half mile long and 165 feet 
        wide lying within Section 1, Township 24 South, Range 33 West, 
        Seward Meridian, Alaska, the center line of which is the center 
        of the unnamed stream from its mouth at Geographic Harbor to the 
        north line of said Section 1. Said unnamed stream flows from the 
        unnamed lake located in Sections 25 and 26, Township 23 South, 
        Range 33 West, Seward Meridian. This strip of land contains 
        approximately 10 acres.

    (c) Availability of Appropriation.--None of the funds appropriated 
in this Act or any other Act hereafter enacted for the implementation of 
the Agreement may be expended until the Secretary determines that the 
Heirs have signed a valid and full relinquishment and release of any and 
all claims described in section 2(d) of the Agreement.
    (d) General Provisions.--
            (1) All of the lands designated as Wilderness pursuant to 
        this section shall be subject to any valid existing rights.
            (2) Subject to the provisions of the Alaska National 
        Interest Lands Conservation Act, the Secretary shall ensure that 
        the lands in the Geographic Harbor area not directly affected by 
        the Agreement remain accessible for the public, including its 
        mooring and mechanized transportation needs.
            (3) The Agreement shall be placed on file and available for 
        public inspection at the Alaska Regional Office of the National 
        Park Service, at the office of the Katmai National Park and 
        Preserve in King Salmon, Alaska, and at least one public 
        facility managed by the Federal, State or local government 
        located in each of Homer, Alaska, and Kodiak, Alaska and such 
        other public facilities which the
Secretary determines are suitable and accessible for such public 
inspections. In addition, as soon as practicable after enactment of this 
provision, the Secretary shall make available for public inspection in 
those same offices, copies of all maps and legal descriptions of lands 
prepared in implementing either the Agreement or this section. Such 
legal descriptions shall be published in the Federal Register and filed 
with the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of 
the Senate.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-266]]

    Sec. 136. Watershed Restoration and Enhancement Agreements. Section 
124(a) of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (16 U.S.C. 1011(a)) is amended by striking 
``with willing private landowners for restoration and enhancement of 
fish, wildlife, and other biotic resources on public or private land or 
both'' and inserting ``with the heads of other Federal agencies, tribal, 
State, and local governments, private and nonprofit entities, and 
landowners for the protection, restoration, and enhancement of fish and 
wildlife habitat and other resources on public or private land and the 
reduction of risk from natural disaster where public safety is 
threatened''.
    Sec. 137. None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be expended before March 31, 1999 to publish final regulations based 
on the regulations proposed at 63 Fed. Reg. 3289 on January 22, 1998.
    Sec. 138. Acquisition of Real Property Interests for Addition to 
Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park. The Act of August 
19, 1890 (16 U.S.C. 424), is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 12. <<NOTE: 16 USC 424-1.>> ACQUISITION OF LAND.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior may acquire private 
land, easements, and buildings within the areas authorized for 
acquisition for the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, 
by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    ``(b) Limitation.--Land, easements, and buildings described in 
subsection (a) may be acquired only from willing sellers.
    ``(c) Administration.--Land, easements, and buildings acquired by 
the Secretary under subsection (a) shall be administered by the 
Secretary as part of the park.''.
    Sec. 139. Amounts invoiced by the Secretary of the Interior and paid 
in full before the date of enactment of this Act for the purchase of 
Federal royalty oil by a refiner pursuant to the preference for small 
refiners in section 36 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 192) or 
section 27(b)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1353(b)(2)) are hereby ratified and deemed to be the refiner's total 
obligation to the United States for such purchases notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, including the regulations set forth in 30 C.F.R. 
208.13 (1997), subject to adjustment to reconcile billed volumes with 
delivered volumes: Provided, That all delivered royalty oil volumes so 
invoiced were processed, used, or exchanged for other crude oil on a 
volume or equivalent basis that was processed or used, in the refiner's 
refineries located in the United States.
    Sec. 140. Remaining funds in the amount of $250,000, appropriated as 
part of Public Law 105-83 in the National Park Service construction 
account for fiscal year 1998 for an environmental impact statement of a 
site for an interpretive center along the Blue Ridge Parkway near 
Roanoke, Virginia, may be used for the construction of an interpretive 
center outside of the boundaries of the Blue Ridge Parkway, near 
Roanoke, Virginia.
    Sec. 141. Section 5(a)(3) of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide 
for the establishment of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, and for 
other purposes'', approved November 5, 1966 (16 U.S.C. 460u-5(a)(3)), is 
amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-267]]

            (1) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by--
                    (A) striking ``as of that date''; and
                    (B) inserting ``, subject to subparagraph (B),'' 
                after ``term ending''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Subparagraph (A)'' 
        and inserting ``Subparagraph (A)(ii)''.

    Sec. 142. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any settlement 
or judgment against the United States for the legislative taking by 
section 817 of Public Law 104-333 (110 Stat. 4200-4201) of real property 
on the eastern end of Santa Cruz Island known as the Gherini Ranch shall 
be paid solely from the permanent judgment appropriation established 
pursuant to section 1304 of title 31, United States Code.
    Sec. 143. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410rr et seq.>>  Public Law 102-350 (16 
U.S.C. 410) is amended to strike ``Marsh-Billings'' each place it 
appears and insert ``Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller''.

    Sec. 144. Refunds or rebates received on an on-going basis from a 
credit card services provider under the Department of the Interior's 
charge card programs may be deposited to and retained without fiscal 
year limitation in the Departmental Working Capital Fund established 
under 43 U.S.C. 1467 and used to fund management initiatives of general 
benefit to the Department of the Interior's bureaus and offices as 
determined by the Secretary or his designee.
    Sec. 145. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460kkk note.>>  The principal visitor 
center for the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, 
regardless of location, shall be named for Anthony C. Beilenson and 
shall be referred to in any law, document or record of the United States 
as the ``Anthony C. Beilenson Visitor Center''.

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 79a note.>> Sec. 146. The Redwood Information Center 
located at 119231 Highway 101 in Orick, California is hereby named the 
``Thomas H. Kuchel Visitor Center'' and shall be referred to in any law, 
document or record of the United States as the ``Thomas H. Kuchel 
Visitor Center''.

    Sec. 147. Appropriations made in this title under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Office of Special Trustee for American 
Indians and any available unobligated balances from prior appropriations 
Acts made under the same headings, shall be available for expenditure or 
transfer for Indian trust management activities pursuant to the Trust 
Management Improvement Project High Level Implementation Plan.
    Sec. 148. All funds received by the United States as a result of the 
sale or the exchange and subsequent sale of lands under section 
412(a)(1) of the ``Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 
1999'' shall be deposited in the ``Everglades restoration'' account in 
accordance with section 390(f)(2)(A) of the Federal Agriculture 
Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127, 110 Stat. 1022.
      Sec. 149. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall transfer a road easement, no wider than 
50 feet, across lot 1 (USS 3811, First Judicial District, Juneau 
Recording District, State of Alaska), administered by the National Park 
Service, identified as road alternative 1 on the map entitled ``Traffic 
and Environmental Feasibility Study for Access to Proposed Auke Cape 
Facility'' in the document for the NOAA/NMFS Juneau Consolidated 
Facility Preliminary Draft Environmental Impact

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-268]]

Statement, dated July 1996, to the City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska. 
The Secretary of the Interior shall also transfer to the City and 
Borough of Juneau all right, title and interest of the United States in 
the right of way described by the plat recorded in Book 54, page 371, of 
the Juneau Recording District. Such transfers shall occur as soon as 
practical after the Secretary of Commerce has exchanged all, or a 
portion, of the right, title and interest in the 28.16 acres known as 
the Auke Cape property for the 22.35 acres known as the Lena Point 
property, near Juneau, Alaska to the City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska. 
The Secretary of the Interior shall deliver to the City and Borough of 
Juneau, Alaska a deed or patent establishing the conveyance to the City 
and Borough of Juneau, Alaska of said easements. The Secretary of the 
Interior shall retain the right of access and use of such right of way, 
easement and road.

    Sec. 150. All properties administered by the National Park Service 
at Fort Baker, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, and leases, 
concessions, permits and other agreements associated with those 
properties, shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments, 
except sales tax, by the State of California and its political 
subdivisions, including the County of Marin and the City of Sausalito. 
Such areas of Fort Baker shall remain under exclusive federal 
jurisdiction.
    Sec. 151. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to negotiate and enter into agreements and 
leases, without regard to section 321 of chapter 314 of the Act of June 
30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b), with any person, firm, association, 
organization, corporation, or governmental entity for all or part of the 
property within Fort Baker administered by the Secretary as part of 
Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The proceeds of the agreements or 
leases shall be retained by the Secretary and such proceeds shall be 
available, without future appropriation, for the preservation, 
restoration, operation, maintenance and interpretation and related 
expenses incurred with respect to Fort Baker properties.
    Sec. 152. In implementing section 1307(a) of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3197), the Secretary of the 
Interior shall deem the holder (on the date of enactment of this Act) of 
the concession contract KATM001-81 to be a person who, on or before 
January 1, 1979, was engaged in adequately providing visitor services of 
the type authorized in said contract with Katmai National Park and 
Preserve.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                      forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $197,444,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-269]]

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, cooperative forestry, and 
education and land conservation activities, $170,722,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by law.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization of the 
National Forest System, and for administrative expenses associated with 
the management of funds provided under the headings ``Forest and 
Rangeland Research'', ``State and Private Forestry'', ``National Forest 
System'', ``Wildland Fire Management'', ``Reconstruction and 
Construction'', and ``Land Acquisition'', $1,298,570,000, to remain 
available until expended, which shall include 50 percent of all moneys 
received during
prior fiscal years as fees collected under the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended, in accordance with section 4 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)): Provided, That up to $3,000,000 of 
funds provided herein may be used to construct or reconstruct facilities 
of the Forest Service: Provided further, That no more than $150,000 
shall be used on any single project, exclusive of planning and design 
costs: Provided further, That any unobligated balances remaining in this 
appropriation in the road maintenance extended budget line item at the 
end of fiscal year 1998 may be transferred to and made a part of the 
``Reconstruction and Construction'' appropriation, road maintenance and 
decommissioning extended budget line item.

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, 
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System 
lands and water, $560,176,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such funds are available for repayment of advances from 
other appropriations accounts previously transferred for such purposes.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $102,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated 
by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That these funds shall be available only to 
the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-270]]

                     reconstruction and construction

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, $297,352,000, to remain available until expended for construction, 
reconstruction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities, and 
for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of forest roads 
and trails by the Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 
23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That up to $15,000,000 of the funds 
provided herein for road maintenance shall be available for the 
decommissioning of roads, including unauthorized roads not part of the 
transportation system, which are no longer needed: Provided further, 
That no funds shall be expended to decommission any system road until 
notice and an opportunity for public comment has been provided: Provided 
further, That the Forest Service may make an advance of up to $200,000 
from the funds provided under this heading in this Act and up to 
$800,000 provided under this heading in Public Law 105-83 to the City of 
Colorado Springs, Colorado, for the design and reconstruction of the 
Pikes Peak Summit House in accordance with terms and conditions agreed 
                                   to.

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 
through 11), including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of 
land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory 
authority applicable to the Forest Service, $117,918,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National
Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,069,000, to be derived 
                          from forest receipts.

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of 
December 4, 1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until 
expended.

                          range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the sixteen Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, protection, 
and improvements.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-271]]

     gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $92,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
                       pursuant to the above Act.

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage federal lands 
in Alaska for subsistence uses under the provisions of Title VIII of the 
Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487 et 
seq.) except in areas described in section 339(a)(1)(A) and (B) of this 
Act, $3,000,000 to become available on September 30, 1999, and remain 
available until expended: Provided, That if prior to October 1, 1999, 
the Secretary of the Interior determines that the Alaska State 
Legislature has approved a bill or resolution to amend the Constitution 
of the State of Alaska that, if approved by the electorate, would enable 
the implementation of state laws of general applicability which are 
consistent with, and which provide for the definition, preference and 
participation specified in sections 803, 804, and 805 of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall make a $3,000,000 grant to the State of Alaska for the purpose of 
assisting that State in fulfilling its responsibilities under sections 
803, 804, and 805 of that Act.

                administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of not to exceed 177 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 22 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 176 shall be for replacement; acquisition of 25 
passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such vehicles; 
operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to exceed two 
for replacement only, and acquisition of sufficient aircraft from excess 
sources to maintain the operable fleet at 213 aircraft for use in Forest 
Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service programs; 
notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft being 
replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to 
offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) services 
pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration of buildings 
and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) acquisition of land, 
waters, and interests therein, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for 
expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National Forest Act of 1972 
(16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost of uniforms as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt collection contracts 
in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).

    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to abolish any region, to move or close any regional office 
for National Forest System administration of the Forest Service, 
Department of Agriculture without the consent of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-272]]

    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
transferred to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation for forest 
firefighting, emergency rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands 
or waters under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
burning conditions.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Foreign Agricultural Service in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and shall be available to support forestry and related natural resource 
activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, and 
cooperation with United States and international organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in House Report 105-163.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the procedures contained 
in House Report 105-163.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
     <<NOTE: 16 USC 556h.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
hereafter any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service 
may be used to disseminate program information to private and public 
individuals and organizations through the use of nonmonetary items of 
nominal value and to provide nonmonetary awards of nominal value and to 
incur necessary expenses for the nonmonetary recognition of private 
individuals and organizations that make contributions to Forest Service 
programs.

     <<NOTE: 30 USC 185 note.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, hereafter money collected, in advance or otherwise, by the Forest 
Service under authority of section 101 of Public Law 93-153 (30 U.S.C. 
185(1)) as reimbursement of administrative and other costs incurred in 
processing pipeline right-of-way or permit applications and for costs 
incurred in monitoring the construction, operation, maintenance, and 
termination of any pipeline and related facilities, may be used to 
reimburse the applicable appropriation to which such costs were 
originally charged.

    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as 
amended by Public Law 93-408.
    None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for timber 
sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 
percent of the fiscal year 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National 
Forest, Ohio: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to hardwood 
stands damaged by natural disaster: Provided further, That landscape 
architects shall be used to maintain a visually pleasing forest.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-273]]

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 2106b.>> Any money collected from the States for 
fire suppression assistance rendered by the Forest Service on non-
Federal lands not in the vicinity of National Forest System lands shall 
hereafter be used to reimburse the applicable appropriation and shall 
remain available until expended as the Secretary may direct in 
conducting activities authorized by 16 U.S.C. 2101 note, 2101-2110, 
1606, and 2111.

    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available to 
the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
     <<NOTE: 16 USC 554e.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
hereafter the Forest Service is authorized to employ or otherwise 
contract with persons at regular rates of pay, as determined by the 
Service, to perform work occasioned by emergencies such as fires, 
storms, floods, earthquakes or any other unavoidable cause without 
regard to Sundays, Federal holidays, and the regular workweek.

    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even-aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of the 
funds available to the Forest Service, up to $2,250,000 may be advanced 
in a lump sum as Federal financial assistance to the National Forest 
Foundation, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
administrative expenses or projects on or benefitting National Forest 
System lands or related to Forest Service programs: Provided, That of 
the Federal funds made available to the Foundation, no more than 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided 
further, That the Foundation shall obtain, by the end of the period of 
Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match on at least 
one-for-one basis funds made available by the Forest Service: Provided 
further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a non-Federal 
recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient has obtained 
the non-Federal matching funds: <<NOTE: 16 USC 583j-9.>>  Provided 
further, That hereafter, the National Forest Foundation may hold Federal 
funds made available but not immediately disbursed and may use any 
interest or other investment income earned (before, on, or after the 
date of enactment of this Act) on Federal funds to carry out the 
purposes of Public Law 101-593: Provided further, That such investments 
may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States or 
in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the 
United States.

    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $2,650,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service shall be available for 
matching funds to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, as 
authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3701-3709, and may be advanced in a lump sum as 
Federal financial assistance, without regard to when expenses are 
incurred, for projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or 
related to Forest Service programs: Provided, That the Foundation shall 
obtain, by the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, 
private contributions to match on at least one-for-one basis funds 
advanced by the Forest Service: Provided further, That the Foundation 
may transfer Federal funds to a non-Federal recipient for a project at 
the same

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-274]]

rate that the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 80 percent of the funds 
appropriated to the Forest Service in the ``National Forest System'' and 
``Reconstruction and Construction'' accounts and planned to be allocated 
to activities under the ``Jobs in the Woods'' program for projects on 
National Forest land in the State of Washington may be granted directly 
to the Washington State
Department of Fish and Wildlife for accomplishment of planned projects. 
Twenty percent of said funds shall be retained by the Forest Service for 
planning and administering projects. Project selection and 
prioritization shall be accomplished by the Forest Service with such 
consultation with the State of Washington as the Forest Service deems 
appropriate.

    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to sections 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to enter into grants, 
contracts, and cooperative agreements as appropriate with the Pinchot 
Institute for Conservation, as well as with public and other private 
agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals, to provide for 
the development, administration, maintenance, or restoration of land, 
facilities, or Forest Service programs, at the Grey Towers National 
Historic Landmark: Provided, That, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary of Agriculture may prescribe, any such public or 
private agency, organization, institution, or individual may solicit, 
accept, and administer private gifts of money and real or personal 
property for the benefit of, or in connection with, the activities and 
services at the Grey Towers National Historic Landmark: Provided 
further, That such gifts may be accepted notwithstanding the fact that a 
donor conducts business with the Department of Agriculture in any 
capacity.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available, as 
determined by the Secretary, for payments to Del Norte County, 
California, pursuant to sections 13(e) and 14 of the Smith River 
National Recreation Area Act (Public Law 101-612).
    For purposes of the Southeast Alaska Economic Disaster Fund as set 
forth in section 101(c) of Public Law 104-134, the direct grants 
provided in subsection (c) shall be considered direct payments for 
purposes of all applicable law except that these direct grants may not 
be used for lobbying activities.
    No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be detailed or 
assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any other agency 
or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless the 
individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    The Forest Service shall fund overhead, national commitments, 
indirect expenses, and any other category for use of funds which are 
expended at any units, that are not directly related to the 
accomplishment of specific work on-the-ground (referred to as ``indirect 
expenditures''), from funds available to the Forest Service, unless 
otherwise prohibited by law: Provided, That not later than

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-275]]

90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Forest Service 
shall provide, to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate, proposed definitions, which are consistent 
with Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board standards, to be used 
with the fiscal year 2000 budget, for indirect expenditures: Provided 
further, That the Forest Service shall implement and adhere to the 
definitions on a nationwide basis without flexibility for modification 
by any organizational level except the Washington Office, and when 
changed by the Washington Office, such changes in definition shall be 
reported in budget requests submitted by the Forest Service: Provided 
further, That the Forest Service shall provide in the fiscal year 2000 
budget justification, planned indirect expenditures in accordance with 
the definitions, summarized and displayed to the Regional, Station, 
Area, and detached unit office level. The justification shall display 
the estimated source and amount of indirect expenditures, by expanded 
budget line item, of funds in the agency's annual budget justification. 
The display shall include
appropriated funds and the Knutson-Vandenberg, Brush Disposal, 
Cooperative Work-Other, and Salvage Sale funds. Changes between 
estimated and actual indirect expenditures shall be reported in 
subsequent budget justifications: Provided further, That during fiscal 
year 2000 the Secretary shall limit total annual indirect obligations 
from the Brush Disposal, Cooperative Work-Other, Knutson-Vandenberg, 
Reforestation, Salvage Sale, and Roads and Trails funds to 20 percent of 
the total obligations from each fund: Provided further, That not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Forest 
Service shall provide a plan which addresses how the agency will fully 
integrate all indirect expenditure information into the agency's general 
ledger system.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                          clean coal technology

    Of the funds made available under this heading for obligation in 
prior years, $10,000,000 of such funds shall not be available until 
October 1, 1999; $15,000,000 shall not be available until October 1, 
2000; and $15,000,000 shall not be available until October 1, 2001: 
Provided, That funds made available in previous appropriations Acts 
shall be available for any ongoing project regardless of the separate 
request for proposal under which the project was selected.

                 fossil energy research and development

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal of 
mineral substances without objectionable social and environmental costs 
(30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), performed under the minerals and 
materials science programs at the Albany

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-276]]

Research Center in Oregon, $384,056,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no part of the sum herein made available shall 
be used for the field testing of nuclear explosives in the recovery of 
oil and gas.

                      alternative fuels production

    Moneys received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1998, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the general fund of the Treasury. 
Moneys received as revenue sharing from operation of the Great Plains 
Gasification Plant shall be immediately transferred to the general fund 
of the Treasury.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For necessary expenses in carrying out naval petroleum and oil shale 
reserve activities, $14,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 10 USC 7430 note. elk hills school lands fund>> That 
the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) shall not apply to fiscal 
year 1999: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds available pursuant to the first proviso under this heading 
in Public Law 101-512 shall be immediately available for all naval 
               petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

      For necessary expenses in fulfilling the first installment payment 
under the Settlement Agreement entered into by the United States and the 
State of California on October 11, 1996, as authorized by section 3415 
of Public Law 104-106, $36,000,000 for payment to the State of 
California for the State Teachers' Retirement Fund from the Elk Hills 
School Lands Fund.

                           energy conservation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $691,701,000, to remain available until expended, including, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $64,000,000, which shall be 
transferred to this account from amounts held in escrow under section 
3002(d) of Public Law 95-509 (15 U.S.C. 4501(d)): Provided, That 
$166,000,000 shall be for use in energy conservation programs as defined 
in section 3008(3) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507): Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509 
such sums shall be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: 
$133,000,000 for weatherization assistance grants and $33,000,000 for 
State energy conservation grants.

                           economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Office 
of Hearings and Appeals, $1,801,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-277]]

                       strategic petroleum reserve

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant to 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.), $160,120,000, to remain available until expended.

                    energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $70,500,000, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made to 
other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for which 
the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, private or 
foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received by or for the 
account of the Department of Energy or otherwise generated by sale of 
products in connection with projects of the Department appropriated 
under this Act may be retained by the Secretary of Energy, to be 
available until expended, and used only for plant construction, 
operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities as provided in 
appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: Provided further, That 
the remainder of revenues after the making of such payments shall be 
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, 
That any contract, agreement, or provision thereof entered into by
the Secretary pursuant to this authority shall not be executed prior to 
the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full comprehensive report on such project, including the facts and 
circumstances relied upon in support of the proposed project.

    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.
    In addition to other authorities set forth in this Act, the 
Secretary may accept fees and contributions from public and private 
sources, to be deposited in a contributed funds account, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-278]]

prosecute projects using such fees and contributions in cooperation with 
other Federal, State or private agencies or concerns.
    The Secretary in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, shall continue the 
process begun in fiscal year 1998 of accepting funds from other Federal 
agencies in return for assisting agencies in achieving energy efficiency 
in Federal facilities and operations by the use of privately financed, 
energy savings performance contracts and other private financing 
mechanisms. The funds may be provided after agencies begin to realize 
energy cost savings; may be retained by the Secretary until expended; 
and may be used only for the purpose of assisting Federal agencies in 
achieving greater efficiency, water conservation and use of renewable 
energy by means of privately financed mechanisms, including energy 
savings performance contracts and utility incentive programs. These 
recovered funds will continue to be used to administer even greater 
energy efficiency, water conservation and use of renewable energy by 
means of privately financed mechanisms such as utility efficiency 
service contracts and energy savings performance contracts. The 
recoverable funds will be used for all necessary program expenses, 
including contractor support and resources needed, to achieve overall 
Federal energy management program objectives for greater energy savings. 
Any such privately financed contracts shall meet the provisions of the 
Energy Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-486 regarding energy savings 
performance contracts and utility incentive programs.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                          Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to the Indian Health Service, $1,950,322,000, together with 
payments received during the fiscal year pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 238(b) 
for services furnished by the Indian Health Service: Provided, That 
funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of 
the grant or contract award and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
further, That $12,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for the 
Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund: Provided further, That 
$373,801,000 for contract medical care shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, up to $17,000,000 shall be used to carry
out the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act: Provided further, That funds provided in this Act 
may be used for one-year contracts and grants which are to be performed 
in two fiscal years, so long as the total obligation is recorded in the 
year for which the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That the 
amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
the authority of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-279]]

title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall remain 
available until expended for the purpose of achieving compliance with 
the applicable conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of 
the Social Security Act (exclusive of planning, design, or construction 
of new facilities): Provided further, That funding contained herein, and 
in any earlier appropriations Acts for scholarship programs under the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000: Provided further, 
That amounts received by tribes and tribal organizations under title IV 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be reported and 
accounted for and available to the receiving tribes and tribal 
organizations until expended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, of the amounts provided herein, not to 
exceed $203,781,000 shall be for payments to tribes and tribal 
organizations for contract or grant support costs associated with 
contracts, grants, self-governance compacts or annual funding agreements 
between the Indian Health Service and a tribe or tribal organization 
pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, prior 
to or during fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That funds provided to 
the Ponca Indian Tribe of Nebraska in previous fiscal years that were 
retained by the tribe to carry out the programs and functions of the 
Indian Health Service may be used by the tribe to obtain approved 
clinical space to carry out the program.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment of 
health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination Act, 
and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses necessary 
to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities support 
activities of the Indian Health Service, $289,465,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction or renovation of health facilities for the benefit of an 
Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land for sites to 
construct, improve, or enlarge health or related facilities.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefore as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for expenses of attendance at 
meetings which are concerned with

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-280]]

the functions or activities for which the appropriation is made or which 
will contribute to improved conduct, supervision, or management of those 
functions or activities: Provided, That in accordance with the 
provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-Indian 
patients may be extended health care at all tribally administered or 
Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, and the proceeds 
along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act 
(42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the account of the facility 
providing the service and shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other law or 
regulation, funds transferred from the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to the Indian Health Service shall be administered under 
Public Law 86-121 (the Indian Sanitation Facilities Act) and Public Law 
93-638, as amended: Provided further, That funds appropriated to the 
Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for administrative 
and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to limitations 
directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal organization 
through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title 
III of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 
1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-
determination contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement 
under title III of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian Health 
Service in this Act shall be used to implement the final rule published 
in the Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of 
Health and Human Services, relating to the eligibility for the health 
care services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health 
Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased costs 
associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has been 
included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted for 
in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided further, 
That with respect to functions transferred by the Indian Health Service 
to tribes or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is 
authorized to provide goods and services to those entities, on a 
reimbursable basis, including payment in advance with subsequent 
adjustment, and the reimbursements received therefrom, along with the 
funds received from those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination Act, may be credited to the same or subsequent 
appropriation account which provided the funding, said amounts to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, <<NOTE: 25 USC 450j-
2.>> That, heretofore and hereafter and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds available to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act or any other Act for Indian self-determination or self-governance 
contract or grant support costs may be expended only for costs directly 
attributable to contracts, grants and compacts pursuant to the Indian 
Self-Determination Act and no funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act shall be available for any contract support costs or indirect costs 
associated with any contract, grant, cooperative agreement, self-
governance compact, or funding agreement entered into between an Indian 
tribe or tribal organization

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-281]]

and any entity other than the Indian Health Service: Provided further, 
That reimbursements for training, technical assistance, or services 
provided by the Indian Health Service will contain total costs, 
including direct, administrative, and overhead associated with the 
provision of goods, services, or technical assistance: Provided further, 
That the appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service may not 
be altered without advance approval of the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

               Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $13,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible individuals 
and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands 
residents, those in significantly substandard housing, and all others 
certified as eligible and not included in the preceding categories: 
Provided further, That none of the funds contained in this or any other 
Act may be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to 
evict any single Navajo or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, 
was physically domiciled on the
lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household: Provided further, That no relocatee will be 
provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided further, 
That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible relocatees who 
have selected and received an approved homesite on the Navajo 
reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                               Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498, as amended (20 U.S.C. 56 part A), $4,250,000.

                         Smithsonian Institution

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as authorized 
by law, including research in the fields of art, science, and history; 
development, preservation, and documentation of the National 
Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed 30 years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to 5 replacement passenger

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-282]]

vehicles; purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees; $347,154,000, of which not to exceed $38,165,000 for the 
instrumentation program, collections acquisition, Museum Support Center 
equipment and move, exhibition reinstallation, the National Museum of 
the American Indian, the repatriation of skeletal remains program, 
research equipment, information management, and Latino programming shall 
remain available until expended, and including such funds as may be 
necessary to support American overseas research centers and a total of 
$125,000 for the Council of American Overseas Research Centers: 
Provided, That funds appropriated herein are available for advance 
payments to independent contractors performing research services or 
participating in official Smithsonian presentations.

         construction and improvements, national zoological park

    For necessary expenses of planning, construction, remodeling, and 
equipping of buildings and facilities at the National Zoological Park, 
by contract or otherwise, $4,400,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                   repair and restoration of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair and restoration of buildings owned 
or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract or otherwise, as 
authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), 
including not to exceed $10,000 for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $40,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, and 
exterior repair or restoration of buildings of the Smithsonian 
Institution may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on 
the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $16,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a single procurement for the construction of the 
National Museum of the American Indian may be issued which includes the 
full scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and 
the contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 
                            48 CFR 52.232.18.

    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used to initiate 
the design of any expansion of current
space or new facility without consultation with the House and Senate 
Appropriations Committees.

    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used to prepare a 
historic structures report, or for any other purpose, involving the Holt 
House located at the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C.
    The Smithsonian Institution shall not use Federal funds in excess of 
the amount specified in Public Law 101-185 for the construction of the 
National Museum of the American Indian.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-283]]

                         National Gallery of Art

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services for 
protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, alteration, 
improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and grounds; and 
purchase of services for restoration and repair of works of art for the 
National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without advertising, with 
individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or prices and under 
such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, $57,938,000 of 
which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
                    remain available until expended.

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized, $6,311,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be negotiated 
with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of contractor 
qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
   of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $12,187,000.

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and rehabilitation of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the Woodrow 
Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-284]]

hire of passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$5,840,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                     National Endowment for the Arts

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $83,500,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects
 and productions in the arts through assistance to organizations and 
individuals pursuant to sections 5(c) and 5(g) of the Act, for program 
support, and for administering the functions of the Act, to remain 
                        available until expended.

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$14,500,000, to remain available until expended, to the National 
Endowment for the Arts: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 11(a)(2)(A) and 
11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                  National Endowment for the Humanities

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $96,800,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
                                expended.

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$13,900,000, to remain available until expended, of which $9,900,000 
shall be available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for the 
purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the 
current and preceding fiscal years for which equal amounts have not 
previously been appropriated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-285]]

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    For carrying out subtitle C of the Museum and Library Services Act 
of 1996, as amended, $23,405,000, to remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses.

                         Commission of Fine Arts

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
                  Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $898,000.

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 U.S.C. 
956(a)), as amended, $7,000,000.

                Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665, as amended), $2,800,000: Provided, That 
none of these funds shall be available for compensation of level V of 
the Executive Schedule or higher positions.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$5,954,000: Provided, That all appointed members will be compensated at 
a rate not to exceed the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388 (36 U.S.C. 1401), as amended, $32,107,000, of which 
$1,575,000 for the museum's repair and rehabilitation program and 
$1,264,000 for the museum's exhibitions program shall remain available 
until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-286]]

                             Presidio Trust

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I of the Omnibus Parks and 
Public Lands Management Act of 1996, $14,913,000 shall be available to 
the Presidio Trust, to remain available until expended. The Trust is 
authorized to issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury 
pursuant to section 104(d)(3) of the Act, in an amount not to exceed 
$20,000,000.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive Order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition 
to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is not 
complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of such 
department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless advance 
notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
    Sec. 307. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-287]]

        in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made 
        equipment and products.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance
a notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant sequoia 
(Sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest System 
or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than such sales 
were conducted in fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal of 
the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 310. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps program, unless the relevant 
agencies of the Department of the Interior and/or Agriculture follow 
appropriate reprogramming guidelines: Provided, That if no funds are 
provided for the AmeriCorps program by the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, then none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps 
programs.
    Sec. 311. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used: 
(1) to demolish the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis 
Island; or (2) to prevent pedestrian use of such bridge, when it is made 
known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or expend 
such funds that such pedestrian use is consistent with generally 
accepted safety standards.
    Sec. 312. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply if 
the Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned: 
(1) a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or before 
September 30, 1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 
2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or 
lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case 
may be, were fully complied with by the applicant by that date.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-288]]

    (c) Report.--On September 30, 1999, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on 
actions taken by the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to 
section 314(c) of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Bureau of 
Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of
the mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as set 
forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have the 
sole responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.

    Sec. 313. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used for the purposes of acquiring lands in the 
counties of Gallia, Lawrence, Monroe, or Washington, Ohio, for the Wayne 
National Forest.
    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
appropriated to or earmarked in committee reports for the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service by Public Laws 103-138, 
103-332, 104-134, 104-208 and 105-83 for payments to tribes and tribal 
organizations for contract support costs associated with self-
determination or self-governance contracts, grants, compacts, or annual 
funding agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian 
Health Service as funded by such Acts, are the total amounts available 
for fiscal years 1994 through 1998 for such purposes, except that, for 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs, tribes and tribal organizations may use 
their tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of ongoing 
contracts, grants, self-governance compacts or annual funding 
agreements.
    Sec. 315. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 1999 the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior are authorized 
to limit competition for watershed restoration project contracts as part 
of the ``Jobs in the Woods'' component of the President's Forest Plan 
for the Pacific Northwest to individuals and entities in historically 
timber-dependent areas in the States of Washington, Oregon, and northern 
California that have been affected by reduced timber harvesting on 
Federal lands.
    Sec. 316. None of the funds collected under the Recreational Fee 
Demonstration program may be used to plan, design, or construct a 
visitor center or any other permanent structure without prior approval 
of the House and the Senate Committees on Appropriations if the 
estimated total cost of the facility exceeds $500,000.
    Sec. 317. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act providing appropriations for the Department of the Interior, 
the Forest Service or the Smithsonian Institution may be used to submit 
nominations for the designation of Biosphere Reserves pursuant to the 
Man and Biosphere program administered by the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-289]]

    (b) The provisions of this section shall be repealed upon enactment 
of subsequent legislation specifically authorizing United States 
participation in the Man and Biosphere program.
    Sec. 318. <<NOTE: 16 USC 459j-4 note.>> None of the funds made 
available in this or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used to 
designate, or to post any sign designating, any portion of Canaveral 
National Seashore in Brevard County, Florida, as a clothing-optional 
area or as an area in which public nudity is permitted, if such 
designation would be contrary to county ordinance.

    Sec. 319. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or American 
        Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made to 
        a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used to 
        make a grant to any other organization or individual to conduct 
        activity independent of the direct grant recipient.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments made in exchange for 
goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs and/or projects.

    Sec. 320. The National Endowment for the Arts and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities are authorized to solicit, accept, receive, 
and invest in the name of the United States, gifts, bequests, or devises 
of money and other property or services and to use such in furtherance 
of the functions of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities. Any proceeds from such gifts, bequests, or 
devises, after acceptance by the National Endowment for the Arts or the 
National Endowment for the Humanities, shall be paid by the donor or the 
representative of the donor to the Chairman. The Chairman shall enter 
the proceeds in a special interest-bearing account to the credit of the 
appropriate Endowment for the purposes specified in each case.
    Sec. 321. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated to fund new revisions of national forest land 
management plans until new final or interim final rules for forest land 
management planning are published in the Federal Register. Those 
national forests which are currently in a revision process, having 
formally published a Notice of Intent to revise prior to October 1, 
1997; those national forests having been court-ordered to revise; those 
national forests where plans reach the fifteen year legally mandated 
date to revise before or during calendar year 2000; national forests 
within the Interior Columbia Basin Ecosystem study area; and the White 
Mountain National Forest are exempt from this section and may use funds 
in this Act and proceed to complete the forest plan revision in 
accordance with current forest planning regulations.
    Sec. 322. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated to complete and issue the five-year program 
under the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-290]]

    Sec. 323. (a)  <<NOTE: 16 USC 1011 note.>> Watershed Restoration and 
Enhancement Agreements.--For fiscal year 1999, 2000 and 2001, to the 
extent funds are otherwise available, appropriations for the Forest 
Service may be used by the Secretary of Agriculture for the purpose of 
entering into cooperative agreements with willing Federal, tribal, State 
and local governments, private and nonprofit entities and landowners for 
the protection, restoration and enhancement of fish and wildlife 
habitat, and other resources on public or private land, the reduction of 
risk from natural disaster where public safety is threatened, or a 
combination thereof or both that benefit these resources within the 
watershed.

    (b) Direct and Indirect Watershed Agreements.--The Secretary of 
Agriculture may enter into a watershed restoration and enhancement 
agreement--
            (1) directly with a willing private landowner; or
            (2) indirectly through an agreement with a State, local or 
        tribal government or other public entity, educational 
        institution, or private nonprofit organization.

    (c) Terms and Conditions.--In order for the Secretary to enter into 
a watershed restoration and enhancement agreement--
            (1) the agreement shall--
                    (A) include such terms and conditions mutually 
                agreed to by the Secretary and the landowner, state or 
                local government, or private or nonprofit entity;
                    (B) improve the viability of and otherwise benefit 
                the fish, wildlife, and other resources on national 
                forests lands within the watershed;
                    (C) authorize the provision of technical assistance 
                by the Secretary in the planning of management 
                activities that will further the purposes of the 
                agreement;
                    (D) provide for the sharing of costs of implementing 
                the agreement among the Federal Government, the 
                landowner(s), and other entities, as mutually agreed on 
                by the affected interests; and
                    (E) ensure that any expenditure by the Secretary 
                pursuant to the agreement is determined by the Secretary 
                to be in the public interest; and
            (2) the Secretary may require such other terms and 
        conditions as are necessary to protect the public investment on 
        non-Federal lands, provided such terms and conditions are 
        mutually agreed to by the Secretary and other landowners, State 
        and local governments or both.

    (d) Reporting Requirements.--Not later than December 31, 1999, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate, which contains--
            (1) A concise description of each project, including the 
        project purpose, location on federal and non-federal land, key 
        activities, and all parties to the agreement.
            (2) the funding and/or other contributions provided by each 
        party for each project agreement.

    Sec. 324. (a) In providing services or awarding financial assistance 
under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 
from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-291]]

    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals who have historically been outside the purview of 
        arts and humanities programs due to factors such as a high 
        incidence of income below the poverty line or to geographic 
        isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.

    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
        and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each grant 
        category under section 5 of such Act; and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

    Sec. 325. None of the funds in this Act may be used for planning, 
design or construction of improvements to Pennsylvania Avenue in front 
of the White House without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 326. <<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note.>>  Notwithstanding the 
provisions of section 1010(b) of the Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), the legislative authority for the international memorial 
to honor the victims of communism, authorized under section 905 of 
Public Law 103-199 (107 Stat. 2331), shall expire December 17, 2007.

     <<NOTE: 16 USC 460l-6a note.>> Sec. 327. Section 101(c) of Public 
Law 104-134, as amended, is further amended as follows: Under the 
heading ``Title III--General Provisions'' amend section 315(f) (16 
U.S.C. 460l-6a note) by striking ``September 30, 1999'' after the words 
``and end on'' and inserting ``September 30, 2001'' and striking 
``September 30, 2002'' after the words ``remain available through'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2004''.

    Sec. 328. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds in this Act may be used to enter into any new or expanded self-
determination contract or grant or self-governance compact pursuant to 
the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, for any 
activities not previously covered by such contracts, compacts or grants. 
Nothing in this section precludes the continuation of those specific 
activities for which self-determination

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-292]]

and self-governance contracts, compacts and grants currently exist or 
the renewal of contracts, compacts and grants for those activities; 
implementation of section 325 of Public Law 105-83 (111 Stat. 1597); or 
compliance with 25 U.S.C. 2005.
    Sec. 329. <<NOTE: 16 USC 535a.>>  (a) Prohibition on Timber 
Purchaser Road Credits.--In financing any forest development road 
pursuant to section 4 of Public Law 88-657 (16 U.S.C. 535, commonly 
known as the National Forest Roads and Trails Act), the Secretary of 
Agriculture may not provide effective credit for road construction to 
any purchaser of national forest timber or other forest products.

    (b)(1) Construction of Roads by Timber Purchasers.--Whenever the 
Secretary of Agriculture makes a determination that a forest development 
road referred to in subsection (a) shall be constructed or paid for, in 
whole or in part, by a purchaser of national forest timber or other 
forest products, the Secretary shall include notice of the determination 
in the notice of sale of the timber or other forest products. The notice 
of sale shall contain, or announce the availability of, sufficient 
information related to the road described in the notice to permit a 
prospective bidder on the sale to calculate the likely cost that would 
be incurred by the bidder to construct or finance the construction of 
the road so that the bidder may reflect such cost in the bid.

    (2) If there is an increase or decrease in the cost of roads 
constructed by the timber purchaser, caused by variations in quantities, 
changes or modifications subsequent to the sale of timber made in 
accordance with applicable timber sale contract provisions, then an 
adjustment to the price paid for timber harvested by the purchaser shall 
be made. The adjustment shall be applied by the Secretary as soon as 
practicable after any such design change is implemented.
    (c) Special Election by Small Business Concerns.--(1) A notice of 
sale referred to in subsection (b) containing specified road 
construction of $50,000 or more, shall give a purchaser of national 
forest timber or other forest products that qualifies as a ``small 
business concern'' under the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.), 
and regulations issued thereunder, the option to elect that the 
Secretary of Agriculture build the roads described in the notice. The 
Secretary shall provide the small business concern with an estimate of 
the cost that would be incurred by the Secretary to construct the roads 
on behalf of the small business concern. The notice of sale shall also 
include the date on which the roads described in the notice will be 
completed by the Secretary if the election is made.
    (2) If the election referred to in paragraph (1) is made, the 
purchaser of the national forest timber or other forest products shall 
pay to the Secretary of Agriculture, in addition to the price paid for 
the timber or other forest products, an amount equal to the estimated 
cost of the roads which otherwise would be paid by the purchaser as 
provided in the notice of sale. Pending receipt of such amount, the 
Secretary may use receipts from the sale of national forest timber or 
other forest products and such additional sums as may be appropriated 
for the construction of roads, such funds to be available until 
expended, to accomplish the requested road construction.
    (d) Post Construction Harvesting.--In each sale of national forest 
timber or other forest products referred to in this section, the 
Secretary of Agriculture is encouraged to authorize harvest

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-293]]

of the timber or other forest products in a unit included in the sale as 
soon as road work for that unit is completed and the road work is 
approved by the Secretary.
    (e) Construction Standard.--For any forest development road that is 
to be constructed or paid for by a purchaser of national forest timber 
or other forest products, the Secretary of Agriculture may not require 
the purchaser to design, construct, or maintain the road (or pay for the 
design, construction, or maintenance of the road) to a standard higher 
than the standard, consistent with applicable environmental laws and 
regulations, that is sufficient for the harvesting and removal of the 
timber or other forest products, unless the Secretary bears that part of 
the cost necessary to meet the higher standard.
    (f) Treatment of Road Value.--For any forest development road that 
is constructed or paid for by a purchaser of national forest timber or 
other forest products, the estimated cost of the road construction, 
including subsequent design changes, shall be considered to be money 
received for purposes of the payments required to be made under the 
sixth paragraph under the heading ``FOREST SERVICE'' in the Act of May 
23, 1908 (35 Stat. 260, 16 U.S.C. 500), and section 13 of the Act of 
March 1, 1911 (35 Stat. 963; commonly known as the Weeks Act; 16 U.S.C. 
500). To the extent that the appraised value of road construction 
determined under this subsection reflects funds contributed by the 
Secretary of Agriculture to build the road to a higher standard pursuant 
to subsection (e), the Secretary shall modify the appraisal of the road 
construction to exclude the effect of the Federal funds.
    (g) Effective Date.--(1) This section and the requirements of this 
section shall take effect (and apply thereafter) upon the earlier of--
            (A) April 1, 1999; or
            (B) the date that is the later of--
                    (i) the effective date of regulations issued by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture to implement this section; and
                    (ii) the date on which new timber sale contract 
                provisions designed to implement this section, that have 
                been published for public comment, are approved by the 
                Secretary.

    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), any sale of national forest 
timber or other forest products for which notice of sale is provided 
before the effective date of this section, and any effective purchaser 
road credit earned pursuant to a contract resulting from such a notice 
of sale or otherwise earned before that effective date shall remain in 
effect, and shall continue to be subject to section 4 of Public Law 88-
657 and section 14(i) of the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 
U.S.C. 472a(i)), and rules issued thereunder, as in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 330. Section 6(b)(1)(B)(iii) of the National Foundation on the 
Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 955(b)(1)(B)(iii)) is amended 
by striking ``One'' and inserting ``Two''.
      Sec. 331. Section 401(f) of Public Law 105-83 (111 Stat. 1610) is 
hereby amended <<NOTE: 43 USC 1474d.>>  by striking ``1998'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``1999''.

    Sec. 332. Amounts deposited during fiscal year 1998 in the roads and 
trails fund provided for in the fourteenth paragraph under the heading 
``FOREST SERVICE'' of the Act of March 4,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-294]]

1913 (37 Stat. 843; 16 U.S.C. 501), shall be used by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, without regard to the State in which the amounts were 
derived, to repair or reconstruct roads, bridges, and trails on National 
Forest System lands or to carry out and administer projects to improve 
forest health conditions, which may include the repair or reconstruction 
of roads, bridges, and trails on National Forest System lands in the 
wildland-community interface where there is an abnormally high risk of 
fire. The projects shall emphasize reducing risks to human safety and 
public health and property and enhancing ecological functions, long-term 
forest productivity, and biological integrity. The Secretary shall 
commence the projects during fiscal year 1999, but the projects may be 
completed in a subsequent fiscal year. Funds shall not be expended under 
this section to replace funds which would otherwise appropriately be 
expended from the timber salvage sale fund. Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to exempt any project from any environmental law.
    Sec. 333. Section 5 of the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act (20 
U.S.C. 974) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b) by striking ``$3,000,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$5,000,000,000'';
            (2) in subsection (c) by striking ``$300,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$500,000,000'';
            (3) by striking ``or'' at the end of subsection (d)(4);
            (4) in subsection (d)(5) by striking ``$200,000,000 or 
        more'' and inserting ``not less than $200,000,000 but less than 
        $300,000,000'' and by striking the final period and inserting a 
        semicolon; and
            (5) by inserting the following two new subsections after 
        subsection (d)(5):
            ``(6) not less than $300,000,000 but less than $400,000,000, 
        then coverage under this chapter shall extend only to loss or 
        damage in excess of the first $300,000 of loss or damage to 
        items covered; or
            ``(7) $400,000,000 or more, then coverage under this chapter 
        shall extend only to loss or damage
in excess of the first $400,000 of loss or damage to items covered.''.

    Sec. 334. Tulare Conveyance. (a) In General.--Subject to subsections 
(c) and (d), all conveyances to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of 
Tulare, California, of lands described in subsection (b), heretofore or 
hereafter, made directly by the Southern Pacific Transportation Company, 
or its successors, are hereby validated to the extent that the 
conveyances would be legal or valid if all right, title, and interest of 
the United States, except minerals, were held by the Southern Pacific 
Transportation Company.
    (b) Lands Described.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) are 
the parcels shown on the map entitled ``Tulare Redevelopment Agency-
Railroad Parcels Proposed to be Acquired'', dated May 29, 1997, that 
formed part of a railroad right-of-way granted to the Southern Pacific 
Railroad Company, or its successors, agents, or assigns, by the Federal 
Government (including the right-of-way approved by an Act of Congress on 
July 27, 1866). The map referred to in this subsection shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in the offices of the Director of 
the Bureau of Land Management.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-295]]

    (c) Preservation of Existing Rights of Access.--Nothing in this 
section shall impair any existing rights of access in favor of the 
public or any owner of adjacent lands over, under or across the lands 
which are referred to in subsection (a).
    (d) Minerals.--The United States disclaims any and all right of 
surface entry to the mineral estate of lands described in subsection 
(b).
    Sec. 335. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3503 note.>> The final set of maps entitled 
``Coastal Barrier Resources System'', dated ``October 24, 1990, revised 
November 12, 1996'', and relating to the following units of the Coastal 
Barrier Resources System: P04A, P05/P05P; P05A/P05AP, FL-06P; P10/P10P; 
P11; P11AP; P11A; P18/P18P; P25/P25P; and P32/P32P (which set of maps 
were created by the Department of the Interior to comply with section 
220 of Public Law 104-333, 110 Stat. 4115, and notice of which was 
published in the Federal Register on May 28, 1997) shall have the force 
and effect of law and replace and substitute for any other inconsistent 
Coastal Barrier Resource System map in the possession of the Department 
of the Interior. This provision is effective immediately upon enactment 
of this Act and the Secretary of the Interior or his designee shall 
immediately make this ministerial substitution.

    Sec. 336. Section 405(c)(2) of the Indian Health Care Improvement 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1645(c)(2)) <<NOTE: 25 USC 1645.>>  is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 1998'' and inserting ``September 30, 2000''.

    Sec. 337. Section 3003 of the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and 
Restitution Act of 1986 (15 U.S.C. 4502) is amended by adding after 
subsection (d) the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section are repealed, 
and any rights that may have arisen are extinguished, on the date of the 
enactment of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999. After that date, the amount available for 
direct restitution to current and future refined petroleum product 
claimants under this Act is reduced by the amounts specified in title II 
of that Act as being derived from amounts held in escrow under section 
3002(d). The Secretary shall assure that the amount remaining in escrow 
to satisfy refined petroleum product claims for direct restitution is 
allocated equitably among the claimants.''.
    Sec. 338. Section 123(a)(2)(C) of the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (111 Stat. 1566), 
is <<NOTE: 25 USC 2717 note.>> amended by striking ``self-regulated 
tribes such as''.
      Sec. 339. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3102 note.>> (a) Restriction on Federal 
Management Under Title VIII of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act.--
            (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, hereafter 
        neither the Secretary of the Interior nor the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may, prior to December 1, 2000, implement or enforce 
        any final rule, regulation, or policy pursuant to title VIII of 
        the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act to manage 
        and to assert jurisdiction, authority, or control over land, 
        water, and wild, renewable resources, including fish and 
        wildlife, in Alaska for subsistence uses, except within--
                    (A) areas listed in 50 C.F.R. 100.3(b) (October 1, 
                1998) and
                    (B) areas constituting ``public land or public 
                lands'' under the definition of such term found at 50 
                C.F.R. 100.4 (October 1, 1998).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-296]]

            (2) The areas in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) 
        shall only be construed to mean those public lands which as of 
        October 1, 1998, were subject to federal management for 
        subsistence uses pursuant to Title VIII of the Alaska National 
        Interest Lands Conservation Act.
      (b) Subsection (a) Repealed.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall certify before 
        October 1, 1999, if a bill or resolution has been passed by the 
        Alaska State Legislature to amend the Constitution of the State 
        of Alaska that, if approved by the electorate, would enable the 
        implementation of state laws of general applicability consistent 
        with, and which provide for the definition, preference, and 
        participation specified in sections 803, 804, and 805 of the 
        Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act.
            (2) Subsection (a) shall be repealed on October 1, 1999, 
        unless prior to that date the Secretary of the Interior makes 
        such a certification described in paragraph (1).
      (c) Technical Amendments to the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act.--Section 805 of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3115) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``one year after the date 
        of enactment of this Act,''
            (2) in subsection (d) by striking ``within one year from the 
        date of enactment of this Act,''.
      (d) Effect on Tidal and Submerged Land.--Nothing in this section 
invalidates, validates, or in any other way affects any claim of the 
State of Alaska to title to any tidal or submerged land in Alaska.

    Sec. 340. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to establish a national wildlife refuge in the Kankakee River watershed 
in northwestern Indiana and northeastern Illinois.

    Sec. 341. <<NOTE: 16 USC 544g note.>>  Upon the condition that 
Skamania County conveys title acceptable to the Secretary of Agriculture 
to all right, title and interest in lands identified on a map dated 
September 29, 1998 entitled ``Skamania County Lands to be Transferred'', 
such lands being located on Table Mountain lying within the Columbia 
River Gorge National Scenic Area, there is hereby conveyed to Skamania 
County, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Wind River 
Nursery Site lands and facilities and all interests therein, except for 
the corridor of the Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail, as depicted on 
a map dated September 29, 1998, entitled ``Wind River Conveyance'', 
which is on file and available for public inspection in the Office of 
the Chief, USDA Forest Service, Washington, D.C.

    The conveyance of lands to Skamania County shall become 
automatically effective upon a determination by the Secretary that 
Skamania County has conveyed acceptable title to the United States to 
the Skamania County lands. Lands conveyed to the United States shall 
become part of the Gifford Pinchot National Forest and shall have the 
status of lands acquired under the Act of March 1, 1911, (commonly 
called the Weeks Act) and shall be managed in accordance with the laws 
and regulations applicable to the National Forest System.
    Sec. 342. <<NOTE: 16 USC 90a-1 note.>> (a) Boundary Adjustments.--
            (1) Lake chelan national recreation area.--The boundary of 
        the Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, established

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-297]]

        by section 202 of Public Law 90-544 (16 U.S.C. 90a-1), is hereby 
        adjusted to exclude a parcel of land and waters consisting of 
        approximately 88 acres, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Management Units, North Cascades, Washington'', 
        numbered NP-CAS-7002A, originally dated October 1967, and 
        revised July 13, 1994.
            (2) Wenatchee national forest.--The boundary of the 
        Wenatchee National Forest is hereby adjusted to include the 
        parcel of land and waters described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability of map.--The map referred to in paragraph 
        (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        offices of the superintendent of the Lake Chelan National 
        Recreation Area and the Director of the National Park Service, 
        Department of the Interior, and in the office of the Chief of 
        the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.

    (b) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--Administrative 
jurisdiction over Federal land and waters in the parcel covered by the 
boundary adjustments in subsection (a) is transferred from the Secretary 
of the Interior to the Secretary of Agriculture, and the transferred 
land and waters shall be managed by the Secretary of Agriculture in 
accordance with the laws and regulations pertaining to the National 
Forest System.
    (c) Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For purposes of section 7 of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the 
boundaries of the Wenatchee National Forest, as adjusted by subsection 
(a), shall be considered to be the boundaries of the Wenatchee National 
Forest as of January 1, 1965.
    Sec. 343.  <<NOTE: 16 USC 1642 note.>> Hardwood Technology Transfer 
and Applied Research. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter the 
``Secretary'') is hereby authorized to conduct technology transfer and 
development, training, dissemination of information and applied research 
in the management, processing and utilization of the hardwood forest 
resource. This authority is in addition to any other authorities which 
may be available to the Secretary including, but not limited to, the 
Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 2101 
et. seq.), and the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Act of 1978, 
as amended (16 U.S.C. 1600-1614).

    (b) In carrying out this authority, the Secretary may enter into 
grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements
with public and private agencies, organizations, corporations, 
institutions and individuals. The Secretary may accept gifts and 
donations pursuant to the Act of October 10, 1978 (7 U.S.C. 2269) 
including gifts and donations from a donor that conducts business with 
any agency of the Department of Agriculture or is regulated by the 
Secretary of Agriculture.

    (c) The Secretary is authorized, on such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary may prescribe, to assume all rights, title, and interest, 
including all outstanding assets, of the Robert C. Byrd Hardwood 
Technology Center, Inc. (hereinafter the ``Center''), a non-profit 
corporation existing under the laws of the State of West Virginia: 
Provided, That the Board of Directors of the Center requests such an 
action and dissolves the corporation consistent with the Articles of 
Incorporation and the laws of the State of West Virginia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-298]]

    (d) The Secretary is authorized to operate and utilize the assets of 
the Center as part of a newly formed ``Institute of Hardwood Technology 
Transfer and Applied Research'' (hereinafter the ``Institute''). The 
Institute, in addition to the Center, will consist of a Director, 
technology transfer specialists from State and Private Forestry, the 
Forestry Sciences Laboratory in Princeton, West Virginia, and any other 
organizational unit of the Department of Agriculture as the Secretary 
deems appropriate. The overall management of the Institute will be the 
responsibility of the USDA Forest Service, State and Private Forestry.
    (e) The Secretary is authorized to generate revenue using the 
authorities provided herein. Any revenue received as part of the 
operation of the Institute shall be deposited into a special fund in the 
Treasury of the United States, known as the ``Hardwood Technology 
Transfer and Applied Research Fund'', which shall be available to the 
Secretary until expended, without further appropriation, in furtherance 
of the purposes of this section, including upkeep, management, and 
operation of the Institute and the payment of salaries and expenses.
    (f) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
    Sec. 344. Notwithstanding the requirements of section 1203(a) of 
Public Law 99-662 [100 Stat. 4263], the non-Federal share of the cost of 
correcting the spillway deficiency at Beach City Lake, Muskingum River 
Basin, Ohio, shall not exceed $141,000.
    Sec. 345. <<NOTE: 16 USC 497d note.>> Notwithstanding section 343 of 
Public Law 105-83, increases in recreation residence fees on the 
Sawtooth National Forest shall be implemented in fiscal year 1999 only 
to the extent that such fee increases do not exceed 25 percent.

    Sec. 346. Section 7 of the Granger-Thye Act of April 24, 1950 is 
amended <<NOTE: 16 USC 580d.>> by deleting the words ``recondition and 
maintain,'' substituting in lieu thereof the words ``renovate, 
recondition, improve, and maintain''.

    Sec. 347. <<NOTE: 16 USC 2104 note.>>  Stewardship End Result 
Contracting Demonstration Project. (a) In General.--Until September 30, 
2002, the Forest Service may enter into no more than twenty-eight (28) 
contracts with private persons and entities, of which Region One of the 
Forest Service shall have the authority to enter into nine (9) such 
contracts, to perform services to achieve land management goals for the 
national forests that meet local and rural community needs.

    (b) Land Management Goals.--The land management goals of a contract 
under subsection (a) may include, among other things--
            (1) road and trail maintenance or obliteration to restore or 
        maintain water quality;
            (2) soil productivity, habitat for wildlife and fisheries, 
        or other resource values;
            (3) setting of prescribed fires to improve the composition, 
        structure, condition, and health of stands or to improve 
        wildlife habitat;
            (4) noncommercial cutting or removing of trees or other 
        activities to promote healthy forest stands, reduce fire 
        hazards, or achieve other non-commercial objectives;
            (5) watershed restoration and maintenance;
            (6) restoration and maintenance of wildlife and fish 
        habitat; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-299]]

            (7) control of noxious and exotic weeds and reestablishing 
        native plant species.

    (c) Contracts.--
            (1) Procurement procedure.--A source for performance of a 
        contract under subsection (a) shall be selected on a best-value 
        basis, including consideration of source under other public and 
        private contracts.
            (2) Term.--A multiyear contract may be entered into under 
        subsection (a) in accordance with section 304B of the Federal 
        Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 
        254c), except that the period of the contract may exceed 5 years 
        but may not exceed 10 years.
            (3) Offsets.--
                    (A) In general.--In connection with contracts under 
                subsection (a), the Forest Service may apply the value 
                of timber or other forest products removed as an offset 
                against the cost of services received.
                    (B) Methods of appraisal.--The value of timber or 
                other forest products used as offsets under subparagraph 
                (A)--
                          (i) shall be determined using appropriate 
                      methods of appraisal commensurate with the 
                      quantity of products to be removed;
                          (ii) may be determined using a unit of measure 
                      appropriate to the contracts; and
                          (iii) may include valuing products on a per-
                      acre basis.
            (4) Relation to other laws.--The Forest Service may enter 
        into contracts under subsection (a), notwithstanding subsections 
        (d) and (g) of section 14 of the National Forest Management Act 
        of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a).

    (d) Receipts.--
            (1) In general.--The Forest Service may collect monies from 
        a contract under subsection (a) so long as such collection is a 
        secondary objective of negotiating contracts that will best 
        achieve the purposes of this section.
            (2) Use.--Monies from a contract under subsection (a) may be 
        retained by the Forest Service and shall be available for 
        expenditure without further appropriation at the demonstration 
        project site from which the monies are collected or at another 
        demonstration project site.
            (3) Relation to other laws.--The value of services received 
        by the Secretary under a stewardship contract project conducted 
        under this section, and any payments made or resources provided 
        by the contractor or the Secretary under such a project, shall 
        not be considered to be monies received from the National Forest 
        System under any provision of law. The Act of June 9, 1930 (16 
        U.S.C. 576 et seq.; commonly known as the Knutson-Vandenberg 
        Act), shall not apply to stewardship contracts entered into 
        under this section.

    (e) Costs of Removal.--The Forest Service may collect deposits from 
contractors covering the costs of removal of timber or other forest 
products pursuant to the Act of August 11, 1916 (39 Stat. 462, chapter 
313; 16 U.S.C. 490); and the next to the last paragraph under the 
heading ``Forest Service.'' under the heading ``Department
of Agriculture'' in the Act of June 30, 1914 (38

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-300]]

Stat. 430, chapter 131; 16 U.S.C. 498); notwithstanding the fact that 
the timber purchasers did not harvest the timber.

    (f) Performance and Payment Guarantees.--
            (1) In general.--The Forest Service may require performance 
        and payment bonds, in accordance with sections 103-2 and 103-2 
        of part 28 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. 
        28.103-2, 28.103-3), in an amount that the contracting officer 
        considers sufficient to protect the Government's investment in 
        receipts generated by the contractor from the estimated value of 
        the forest products to be removed under contract under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Excess offset value.--If the offset value of the forest 
        products exceeds the value of the resource improvement 
        treatments, the Forest Service may--
                    (A) collect any residual receipts pursuant to the 
                Act of June 9, 1930 (46 Stat. 527, chapter 416; 16 
                U.S.C. 576b); and
                    (B) apply the excess to other authorized stewardship 
                demonstration projects.

    (g) Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting.--The Forest Service shall 
establish a multiparty monitoring and evaluation process that accesses 
each individual stewardship contract conducted under this section. 
Besides the Forest Service, participants in this process may include any 
cooperating governmental agencies, including tribal governments, and any 
interested groups or individuals. The Forest Service shall report 
annually to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate on--
            (1) the status of development, execution, and administration 
        of contracts under subsection (a);
            (2) the specific accomplishments that have resulted; and
            (3) the role of local communities in development of contract 
        plans.

    Sec. 348. The Forest Service and the Federal Highway Administration 
shall make available to the State of Utah, $15,000,000 for construction 
of the Trappers Loop connector road. Such funds shall be made available 
from the Federal Land Highway Program, Public Lands Highways (Forests) 
funds. Such funds shall be made available prior to computation and 
aggregation of the state shares of such funds for other projects.
    Section 349. <<NOTE: 30 USC 81 note.>>  Protection of Sanctity of 
Contracts and Leases of Surface Patent Holders With Respect to Coalbed 
Methane Gas. (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the United 
States shall recognize as not infringing upon any ownership rights of 
the United States to coalbed methane any--
            (1) contract or lease covering any land that was conveyed by 
        the United States under the Act entitled ``An Act for the 
        protection of surface rights of entrymen'', approved March 3, 
        1909 (30 U.S.C. 81), or the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for 
        agricultural entries on coal lands'',
approved June 22, 1910 (30 U.S.C. 83 et seq.), that was--
                    (A) entered into by a person who has title to said 
                land derived under said Acts, and
                    (B) that conveys rights to explore for, extract, and 
                sell coalbed methane from said land; or
            (2) coalbed methane production from the lands described in 
        subsection (a)(1) by a person who has title to said land

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-301]]

        and who, on or before the date of enactment of this Act, has 
        filed an application with the State oil and gas regulating 
        agency for a permit to drill an oil and gas well to a completion 
        target located in a coal formation.
      (b) Application.--Subsection (a)
            (1) shall apply only to a valid contract or lease described 
        in subsection (a) that is in effect on the date of enactment of 
        this Act;
            (2) shall not otherwise change the terms or conditions of, 
        or affect the rights or obligations of any person under such a 
        contract or lease;
            (3) shall apply only to land with respect to which the 
        United States is the owner of coal reserved to the United States 
        in a patent issued under the Act of March 3, 1909 (30 U.S.C. 
        81), or the Act of June 22, 1910 (30 U.S.C. 83 et seq.), the 
        position of the United States as the owner of the coal not 
        having passed to a third party by deed, patent or other 
        conveyance by the United States;
            (4) shall not apply to any interest in coal or land 
        conveyed, restored, or transferred by the United States to a 
        federally recognized Indian tribe, including any conveyance, 
        restoration, or transfer made pursuant to the Indian 
        Recorganization Act, June 18, 1934 (c. 576, 48 Stat. 984, as 
        amended); the Act of June 28, 1938, (c. 776, 52 Stat. 1209 as 
        implemented by the order of September 14, 1938, 3 Fed. Reg. 
        1425); and including the area described in Sec. 3 of P.L. 98-
        290; or any executive order;
            (5) shall not be construed to constitute a waiver of any 
        rights of the United States with respect to coalbed methane 
        production that is not subject to subsection (a);
            (6) shall not limit the right of any person who entered into 
        a contract or lease before the date of enactment of this Act, or 
        enters into a contract or lease on or after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, for coal owned by the United States, to 
        mine and remove the coal and to release coalbed methane without 
        liability to any person referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A) or 
        (a)(2).

    Sec. 350. No timber in Region 10 of the Forest Service shall be 
advertised for sale which, when using domestic Alaska western red cedar 
selling values and manufacturing costs, fails to provide at least 60 
percent of normal profit and risk of the appraised timber, except at the 
written request by a prospective bidder. Program accomplishments shall 
be based on volume sold. Should Region 10 sell, in fiscal year 1999, the 
annual average portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity called for 
in the current Tongass Land Management Plan which provides greater than 
60 percent of normal profit and risk at the time of the sale 
advertisement, all of the western red cedar timber from those sales 
which is surplus to the needs of domestic processors in Alaska, shall be 
made available to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 United States 
based on values in the Pacific
Northwest as determined by the Forest Service and stated in the timber 
sale contract. Should Region 10 sell, in fiscal year 1999, less than the 
annual average portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity called for 
in the current Tongass Land Management Plan meeting the 60 percent of 
normal profit and risk standard at the time of sale advertisement, the 
volume of western red cedar timber available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-302]]

to domestic processors at rates specified in the timber sale contract in 
the contiguous 48 states shall be that volume: (i) which is surplus to 
the needs of domestic processors in Alaska; and (ii) is that percent of 
the surplus western red cedar volume determined by calculating the ratio 
of the total timber volume which has been sold on the Tongass to the 
annual average portion of the decadal allowable sale quantity called for 
in the current Tongass Land Management Plan. The percentage shall be 
calculated by Region 10 on a rolling basis as each sale is sold. (For 
purposes of this amendment, a ``rolling basis'' shall mean that the 
determination of how much western red cedar is eligible for sale to 
various markets shall be made at the time each sale is awarded.) Western 
red cedar shall be deemed ``surplus to the needs of domestic processors 
in Alaska'' when the timber sale holder has presented to the Forest 
Service documentation of the inability to sell western red cedar logs 
from a given sale to domestic Alaska processors at a price equal to or 
greater than the log selling value stated in the contract. All 
additional western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 
United States domestic processors may be exported to foreign markets at 
the election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska yellow cedar may be 
sold at prevailing export prices at the election of the timber sale 
holder.

    Sec. 351. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, prior to 
September 30, 2001 the Indian Health Service may not disburse funds for 
the provision of health care services pursuant to Public Law 93-638 (25 
U.S.C. 450 et seq.), with any Alaska native village or Alaska Native 
village corporation that is located within the area served by an Alaska 
Native regional health entity.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the 
disbursal of funds to any Alaska Native village or Alaska Native village 
corporation under any contract or compact entered into prior to August 
27, 1997, or to prohibit the renewal of any such agreement.
    Sec. 352. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be 
expended in Fiscal Year 1999 by the Department of the Interior, the 
Forest Service, or any other Federal agency for the capture and physical 
relocation of grizzly bears in the Selway-Bitterroot area of Idaho and 
adjacent Montana. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Department 
of the Interior, the Forest Service, or any other Federal agency from 
using funds to produce a final environmental impact statement that will 
include an analysis of the habitat based population viability study 
completed in 1998, receive public comment on such final environmental 
impact statement, or issue a Record of Decision.

    Sec. 353. King Cove Health and Safety. (a) Road on King Cove 
Corporation Lands.--Of the funds appropriated in this section, not later 
than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, $20,000,000 shall 
be made available to the Aleutians East Borough for the construction of 
an unpaved road not more than 20 feet in width, a dock, and marine 
facilities and equipment. Such road shall be constructed on King Cove 
Corporation Lands and shall extend from King Cove to such dock. The 
Aleutians East Borough, in consultation with the State of Alaska, shall 
determine the appropriate location of such dock and marine facilities. 
In no instance may any part of such road, dock, marine facilities or 
equipment enter or pass over any land within the Congressionally-
designated wilderness in the Izembek National Wildlife Refuge

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-303]]

(for purposes of this section, the lands within the Refuge boundary 
already conveyed to the King Cove Corporation are not within the 
wilderness area).
      (b) King Cove Air Strip.--Of the funds appropriated in this 
section, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall make available up to 
$15,000,000 to the State of Alaska for the cost of improvements to the 
air strip at King Cove, Alaska, including to enable jet aircraft with 
the capability of flying non-stop between Anchorage, Alaska and King 
Cove, Alaska to land and take off from such air strip.
      (c) King Cove Indian Health Service Facility.--Of the funds 
appropriated in this section, not later than 60 days after the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall make 
available $2,500,000 to the Indian Health Service for the cost of new 
construction or improvements to the clinic in King Cove, Alaska, and 
telemedicine and other medical equipment for such clinic.
      (d) Applicability of Other Laws.--All actions undertaken pursuant 
to this section must be in accordance with all other applicable laws.
      (e) Appropriation.--In addition to funds in this or any other Act, 
$37,500,000 is appropriated and shall remain available until expended 
for the King Cove Health and Safety projects specifically identified 
within this section.

    Sec. 354. (a) In General.--To reflect the intent of Congress set 
forth in Public Law 98-396, section 4(a)(2) of the Columbia River Gorge 
National Scenic Area Act (16 U.S.C. 544(a)(2)) is <<NOTE: 16 USC 
544b.>> amended--
            (1) by striking ``(2) The boundaries'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(2) Boundaries.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the boundaries''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exclusions.--The scenic area shall not include 
                the approximately 29 acres of land owned by the Port of 
                Camas-Washougal in the South \1/2\ of Section 16, 
                Township 1 North, Range 4 East, and the North \1/2\ of 
                Section 21, Township 1 North, Range 4 East, Willamete 
                Meridian, Clark County, Washington, that consists of--
                          ``(i) the approximately 19 acres of Port land 
                      acquired from the Corps of Engineers under the 
                      Second Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1984 
                      (Public Law 98-396); and
                          ``(ii) the approximately 10 acres of adjacent 
                      Port land to the west of the land described in 
                      clause (i).''.

    (b) Intent.--The <<NOTE: 16 USC 544b note.>> amendment made by 
subsection (a)--
            (1) is intended to achieve the intent of Congress set forth 
        in Public Law 98-396; and
            (2) is not intended to set a precedent regarding adjustment 
        or amendment of any boundaries of the
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area or any other provisions of the 
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act.

    Sec. 355. Section 5580 of the Revised Statutes (20 U.S.C. 42) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The business''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-304]]

    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board of 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution may modify the number of members, 
manner of appointment of members, or tenure of members, of the boards or 
commissions under the jurisdiction of the Smithsonian Institution, other 
than--
            ``(1) the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; 
        and
            ``(2) the boards or commissions of the National Gallery of 
        Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and the 
        Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.''.

    Sec. 356. (a) The Act entitled ``An Act to promote the development 
of Indian arts and crafts and to create a board to assist therein, and 
for other purposes'', approved August 27, 1935 (25 U.S.C. 305 et 
seq.), <<NOTE: 25 USC 305f.>> is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

    ``Sec. 7. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is directed to transfer all right, title and 
interest in that portion of the Indian Arts and Crafts Board art 
collection maintained permanently by the Indian Arts and Crafts Board in 
Washington, District of Columbia, to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution to be a part of the collection of the National Museum of the 
American Indian, subject to subsection (b). Transfer of the collection 
and costs thereof shall be carried out in accordance with terms, 
conditions, and standards mutually agreed upon by the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
    ``(b) The Indian Arts and Crafts Board shall retain a permanent 
license to the use of images of the collection for promotional, economic 
development, educational and related nonprofit purposes. The Indian Arts 
and Crafts Board shall not be required to pay any royalty or fee for 
such license.''.
      (b) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to use funds 
appropriated in this Act under the heading `salaries and expenses' under 
the heading `Departmental Management' for the costs associated with the 
transfer of the collection.

    Sec. 357. None of the funds provided in this or any other Act shall 
be available for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands within 
the tract known as the Baca Location No. 1 in New Mexico until such time 
as--
            (1) an appraisal is completed for such tract which conforms 
        with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisitions; and
            (2) legislation is enacted authorizing the acquisition of 
        lands or interests in lands within such tract.

    Sec. 358. The Federal building located at 15013 Denver West Parkway, 
Golden, Colorado, and known as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
Visitors Center, shall be known and designated as the ``Dan Schaefer 
Federal Building''. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States court 
house referred to in this provision shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the ``Dan Schaefer Federal Building''. This provision shall take effect 
on January 3, 1999.
    Sec. 359. The new Federal building under construction at 325 
Broadway in Boulder, Colorado, shall be known and designated as the 
``David Skaggs Federal Building''. Any reference in a law, map, 
regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
Federal building referred to in this provision shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-305]]

be deemed to be a reference to the ``David Skaggs Federal
Building''. This provision shall take effect on January 3, 1999.

    Sec. 360. The Federal building located at 201 14th Street, S.W. in 
Washington, D.C., shall be known and redesignated as the ``Sidney R. 
Yates Federal Building''. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Federal 
building referred to in this provision shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Sidney R. Yates Federal Building''. This provision shall take 
effect on January 3, 1999.
    Sec. 361. If all of the funding approved for release by the 
Committees on September 3, 1998, pursuant to Title V--Priority Land 
Acquisitions, Land Exchanges, and Maintenance in Public Law 105-83 is 
not apportioned to and made available for obligation by the relevant 
land management agencies within five days of the enactment of this Act, 
those funds are rescinded.
      Sec. 362. Section 219 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and 
Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, 
Pub. L. 103-354, 7 U.S.C. Sec. 6919, is hereby repealed.

                                TITLE IV

      THE HERGER-FEINSTEIN QUINCY LIBRARY GROUP FOREST RECOVERY ACT

    Sec. 401.  <<NOTE: Herger-Feinstein Quincy Library Group Forest 
Recovery Act. 16 USC 2104 note.>> Pilot Project for Plumas, Lassen, and 
Tahoe National Forests to Implement Quincy Library Group Proposal. (a) 
Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Quincy Library 
Group-Community Stability Proposal'' means the agreement by a coalition 
of representatives of fisheries, timber, environmental, county 
government, citizen groups, and local communities that formed in 
northern California to develop a resource management program that 
promotes ecologic and economic health for certain Federal lands and 
communities in the Sierra Nevada area. Such proposal includes the map 
entitled ``QUINCY LIBRARY GROUP Community Stability Proposal'', dated 
October 12, 1993, and prepared by VESTRA Resources of Redding, 
California.

    (b) Pilot Project Required.--
            (1) Pilot project and purpose.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary''), acting 
        through the Forest Service and after completion of an 
        environmental impact statement (a record of decision for which 
        shall be adopted within 300 days), shall conduct a pilot project 
        on the Federal lands described in paragraph (2) to implement and 
        demonstrate the effectiveness of the resource management 
        activities described in subsection (d) and the other 
        requirements of this section, as recommended in the Quincy 
        Library Group-Community Stability Proposal.
            (2) Pilot project area.--The Secretary shall conduct the 
        pilot project on the Federal lands within
Plumas National Forest, Lassen National Forest, and the Sierraville 
Ranger District of Tahoe National Forest in the State of California 
designated as ``Available for Group Selection'' on the map entitled 
``QUINCY LIBRARY GROUP Community Stability Proposal'', dated October 12, 
1993 (in this section referred to as the ``pilot project area''). Such 
map shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Forest Service.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-306]]

    (c) Exclusion of Certain Lands, Riparian Protection and 
Compliance.--
            (1) Exclusion.--All spotted owl habitat areas and protected 
        activity centers located within the pilot project area 
        designated under subsection (b)(2) will be deferred from 
        resource management activities required under subsection (d) and 
        timber harvesting during the term of the pilot project.
            (2) Riparian protection.--
                    (A) In general.--The Scientific Analysis Team 
                guidelines for riparian system protection described in 
                subparagraph (B) shall apply to all resource management 
                activities conducted under subsection (d) and all timber 
                harvesting activities that occur in the pilot project 
                area during the term of the pilot project.
                    (B) Guidelines described.--The guidelines referred 
                to in subparagraph (A) are those in the document 
                entitled ``Viability Assessments and Management 
                Considerations for Species Associated with Late-
                Successional and Old-Growth Forests of the Pacific 
                Northwest'', a Forest Service research document dated 
                March 1993 and co-authored by the Scientific Analysis 
                Team, including Dr. Jack Ward Thomas.
                    (C) Limitation.--Nothing in this section shall be 
                construed to require the application of the Scientific 
                Analysis Team guidelines to any livestock grazing in the 
                pilot project area during the term of the pilot project, 
                unless the livestock grazing is being conducted in the 
                specific location at which the Scientific Analysis Team 
                guidelines are being applied to an activity under 
                subsection (d).
            (3) Compliance.--All resource management activities required 
        by subsection (d) shall be implemented to the extent consistent 
        with applicable Federal law and the standards and guidelines for 
        the conservation of the California spotted owl as set forth in 
        the California Spotted Owl Sierran Provence Interim Guidelines 
        or the subsequently issued guidelines, whichever are in effect.
            (4) Roadless area protection.--The Regional Forester for 
        Region 5 shall direct that any resource management activity 
        required by subsection (d)(1) and (2), all road building, all 
        timber harvesting activities, and any riparian management under 
        subsection (d)(4) that utilizes road construction or timber 
        harvesting shall not be conducted on Federal lands within the 
        Plumas National Forest, Lassen National Forest, and the 
        Sierraville Ranger District of the Tahoe National Forest that 
        are designated as either ``Off Base'' or ``Deferred'' on the map 
        referred to in subsection (a). Such direction shall be effective 
        during the term of the pilot project.

    (d) Resource Management Activities.--During the term of the pilot 
project, the Secretary shall implement and carry out the following 
resource management activities on an acreage basis on the Federal lands 
included within the pilot project area designated under subsection 
(b)(2):
            (1) Fuelbreak construction.--Construction of a strategic 
        system of defensible fuel profile zones, including shaded 
        fuelbreaks, utilizing thinning, individual tree selection, and 
        other methods of vegetation
management consistent with the Quincy Library Group-Community Stability 
Proposal, on not less than 40,000, but not more than 60,000, acres per 
year.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-307]]

            (2) Group selection and individual tree selection.--
        Utilization of group selection and individual tree selection 
        uneven-aged forest management prescriptions described in the 
        Quincy Library Group-Community Stability Proposal to achieve a 
        desired future condition of all-age, multistory, fire resilient 
        forests as follows:
                    (A) Group selection.--Group selection on an average 
                acreage of .57 percent of the pilot project area land 
                each year of the pilot project.
                    (B) Individual tree selection.--Individual tree 
                selection may also be utilized within the pilot project 
                area.
            (3) Total acreage.--The total acreage on which resource 
        management activities are implemented under this subsection 
        shall not exceed 70,000 acres each year.
            (4) Riparian management.--A program of riparian management, 
        including wide protection zones and riparian restoration 
        projects, consistent with riparian protection guidelines in 
        subsection (c)(2)(B).

    (e) Cost-Effectiveness.--In conducting the pilot project, Secretary 
shall use the most cost-effective means available, as determined by the 
Secretary, to implement resource management activities described in 
subsection (d).
    (f) Funding.--
            (1) Source of funds.--In conducting the pilot project, the 
        Secretary shall use, subject to the relevant reprogramming 
        guidelines of the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations--
                    (A) those funds specifically provided to the Forest 
                Service by the Secretary to implement resource 
                management activities according to the Quincy Library 
                Group-Community Stability Proposal; and
                    (B) year-end excess funds that are allocated for the 
                administration and management of Plumas National Forest, 
                Lassen National Forest, and the Sierraville Ranger 
                District of Tahoe National Forest.
            (2) Prohibition on use of certain funds.--The Secretary may 
        not conduct the pilot project using funds appropriated for any 
        other unit of the National Forest System.
            (3) Flexibility.--Subject to normal reprogramming 
        guidelines, during the term of the pilot project, the forest 
        supervisors of Plumas National Forest, Lassen National Forest, 
        and Tahoe National Forest may allocate and use all accounts that 
        contain year-end excess funds and all available excess funds for 
        the administration and management of Plumas National Forest, 
        Lassen National Forest, and the Sierraville Ranger District of 
        Tahoe National Forest to perform the resource management 
        activities described in subsection (d).
            (4) Restriction.--The Secretary or the forest supervisors, 
        as the case may be, shall not utilize authority provided under 
        paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) if, in their judgment, doing so will 
        limit other nontimber related multiple use activities for which 
        such funds were available.
            (5) Overhead.--The Secretary shall seek to ensure that of 
        amounts available to carry out this section--
                    (A) not more than 12 percent is used or allocated 
                for general administration or other overhead; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-308]]

                    (B) at least 88 percent is used to implement and 
                carry out activities required by this section.
            (6) Authorized supplemental funds.--There are authorized to 
        be appropriated to implement and carry out the pilot project 
        such sums as are necessary.
            (7) Baseline funds.--Amounts available for resource 
        management activities authorized under subsection (d) shall at a 
        minimum include existing baseline funding levels.

    (g) Term of Pilot Project.--The Secretary shall conduct the pilot 
project until the earlier of: (1) the date on which the Secretary 
completes amendment or revision of the land and resource management 
plans directed under and in compliance with subsection (i) for the 
Plumas National Forest, Lassen National Forest, and Tahoe National 
Forest; or (2) five years after the date of the commencement of the 
pilot project.
    (h) Consultation.--(1) The statement required by subsection (b)(1) 
shall be prepared in consultation with interested members of the public, 
including the Quincy Library Group.
    (2) Contracting.--The Forest Service, subject to the availability of 
appropriations, may carry out any (or all) of the requirements of this 
section using private contracts.
    (i) Corresponding Forest Plan Amendments.--Within 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Regional Forester for Region 5 
shall initiate the process to amend or revise the land and resource 
management plans for Plumas National Forest, Lassen National Forest, and 
Tahoe National Forest. The process shall include preparation of at least 
one alternative that--
            (1) incorporates the pilot project and area designations 
        made by subsection (b), the resource management activities 
        described in subsection (d), and other aspects of the Quincy 
        Library Group-Community Stability Proposal; and
            (2) makes other changes warranted by the analyses conducted 
        in compliance with section 102(2) of the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)), section 6 of the Forest 
        and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
        U.S.C. 1604), and other applicable laws.

    (j) Status Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 28 of each year 
        during the term of the pilot project, the Secretary shall submit 
        to Congress a report on the status of the pilot project. The 
        report shall include at least the following:
                    (A) A complete accounting of the use of funds made 
                available under subsection (f)(1)(A) until such funds 
                are fully expended.
                    (B) A complete accounting of the use of funds and 
                accounts made available under subsection (f)(1) for the 
                previous fiscal year, including a schedule of the 
                amounts drawn from each account used to perform resource 
                management activities described in subsection (d).
                    (C) A description of total acres treated for each of 
                the resource management activities required under 
                subsection (d), forest health improvements, fire risk 
                reductions, water yield increases, and other natural 
                resources-related benefits achieved by the 
                implementation of the resource management activities 
                described in subsection (d).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-309]]

                    (D) A description of the economic benefits to local 
                communities achieved by the implementation of the pilot 
                project.
                    (E) A comparison of the revenues generated by, and 
                costs incurred in, the implementation of the resource 
                management activities
described in subsection (d) on the Federal lands included in the pilot 
project area with the revenues and costs during each of the fiscal years 
1992 through 1997 for timber management of such lands before their 
inclusion in the pilot project.
                    (F) A proposed schedule for the resource management 
                activities to be undertaken in the pilot project area 
                during the 1-year period beginning on the date of 
                submittal of the report.
                    (G) A description of any adverse environmental 
                impacts from the pilot project.
            (2) Limitation on expenditures.--The amount of Federal funds 
        expended on each annual report under this subsection shall not 
        exceed $125,000.

    (k) Final Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish an 
        independent scientific panel to review and report on whether, 
        and to what extent, implementation of the pilot project under 
        this section achieved the goals stated in the Quincy Library 
        Group-Community Stability Proposal, including improved 
        ecological health and community stability. The membership of the 
        panel shall reflect expertise in diverse disciplines in order to 
        adequately address all of those goals.
            (2) Preparation.--The panel shall initiate such review no 
        sooner than 18 months after the first day of the term of the 
        pilot project under subsection (g). The panel shall prepare the 
        report in consultation with interested members of the public, 
        including the Quincy Library Group. The report shall include, 
        but not be limited to, the following:
                    (A) A description of any adverse environmental 
                impacts resulting from implementation of the pilot 
                project.
                    (B) An assessment of watershed monitoring data on 
                lands treated pursuant to this section. Such assessment 
                shall address the following issues on a priority basis: 
                timing of water releases; water quality changes; and 
                water yield changes over the short- and long-term in the 
                pilot project area.
            (3) Submission to the congress.--The panel shall submit the 
        final report to the Congress as soon as practicable, but in no 
        case later than 18 months after completion of the pilot project.
            (4) Limitation on expenditures.--The amount of Federal funds 
        expended for the report under this subsection, other than for 
        watershed monitoring, shall not exceed $350,000. The amount of 
        Federal funds expended for watershed monitoring under this 
        subsection shall not exceed $175,000 for each fiscal year in 
        which the report is prepared.

    (l) Relationship to Other Laws.--Nothing in this section exempts the 
pilot project from any Federal environmental law.
    (m) Loans for Demonstration Projects for Wood Waste or Low-Quality 
Wood Byproducts.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-310]]

            (1) Evaluation of loan advisability.--The Alternative 
        Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation 
        established under section 1658 of the Food, Agriculture, 
        Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5902) (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Corporation'') shall evaluate the 
        advisability of making commercialization assistance loans under 
        section 1661 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 5905) to support a minimum of 
        2 demonstration projects for the development and demonstration 
        of commercial application of technology to convert wood waste or 
        low-quality wood byproducts into usable, higher value products.
            (2) Location of demonstration projects.--If the Corporation 
        determines to make
loans under this subsection to support the development and demonstration 
of commercial application of technology to convert wood waste or low-
quality wood byproducts into usable, higher value products, the 
Corporation shall consider making one loan with regard to a 
demonstration project to be conducted in the pilot project area and one 
loan with regard to a demonstration project to be conducted in southeast 
Alaska.
            (3) Eligibility requirements.--To be eligible for a loan 
        under this subsection, a demonstration project shall be required 
        to satisfy the eligibility requirements imposed by the 
        Corporation under section 1661 of the Food, Agriculture, 
        Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5905).

    Sec. 402. Short Title. Section 401 of this title may be cited as the 
``Herger-Feinstein Quincy Library Group Forest Recovery Act''.

 <<NOTE: The Land Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998.>> TITLE V--
LAND BETWEEN THE LAKES PROTECTION ACT

SEC. 501. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be referred to as ``The Land Between the Lakes 
Protection Act of 1998''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll note.>> SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Advisory board.--The term ``Advisory Board'' means the 
        Land Between the Lakes Advisory Board established under section 
        522.
            (3) Chairman.--The term ``Chairman'' means the Chairman of 
        the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
            (4) Eligible employee.--The term ``eligible employee'' means 
        a person that was, on the date of transfer pursuant to section 
        541, a full-time or part-time annual employee of the Tennessee 
        Valley Authority at the Recreation Area.
            (5) Environmental law.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``environmental law'' 
                means all applicable Federal, State, and local laws 
                (including regulations) and requirements related to 
                protection of human health, natural and cultural 
                resources, or the environment.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``environmental law'' 
                includes--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-311]]

                          (i) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                      Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                      9601 et seq.);
                          (ii) the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
                      6901 et seq.);
                          (iii) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                      (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                          (iv) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
                      seq.);
                          (v) the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and 
                      Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
                          (vi) the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
                      U.S.C. 2601 et seq.);
                          (vii) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
                      300f et seq.);
                          (viii) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                      of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
                          (ix) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
            (6) Forest highway.--The term ``forest highway'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 101(a) of title 23, United 
        States Code.
            (7) Governmental unit.--The term ``governmental unit'' means 
        an agency of the Federal Government or a State or local 
        government, local governmental unit, public or municipal 
        corporation, or unit of a State university system.
            (8) Hazardous substance.--The term ``hazardous substance'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            (9) Person.--The term ``person'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            (10) Pollutant or contaminant.--The term ``pollutant or 
        contaminant'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of 
        the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            (11) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
        the Land Between the Lakes National Recreation Area.
            (12) Release.--The term ``release'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
        Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
        9601).
            (13) Response action.--The term ``response action'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 101 of the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            (14) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (15) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Kentucky 
        and the State of Tennessee.

SEC. 503. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-1.>>  PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to transfer without consideration administrative 
        jurisdiction over the Recreation Area from the Tennessee Valley

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-312]]

        Authority to the Secretary so that the Recreation Area may be 
        managed as a unit of the National Forest System;
            (2) to protect and manage the resources of the Recreation 
        Area for optimum yield of outdoor recreation and environmental 
        education through multiple use management by the Forest Service;
            (3) to authorize, research, test, and demonstrate innovative 
        programs and cost-effective management of the Recreation Area;
            (4) to authorize the Secretary to cooperate between and 
        among the States, Federal agencies, private organizations, and 
        corporations, and individuals, as appropriate, in the management 
        of the Recreation Area and to help stimulate the development of 
        the surrounding region and extend the beneficial results as 
        widely as practicable; and
            (5) to provide for the smooth and equitable transfer of 
        jurisdiction from the Tennessee Valley Authority to the 
        Secretary.

       Subtitle A--Establishment, Administration, and Jurisdiction

SEC. 511. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-11.>>  ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--On the transfer of administrative jurisdiction 
under section 541, the Land Between the Lakes National Recreation Area 
in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee is established as a unit of the 
National Forest System.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Recreation 
        Area for multiple use as a unit of the National Forest System.
            (2) Emphases.--The emphases in the management of the 
        Recreation Area shall be--
                    (A) to provide public recreational opportunities;
                    (B) to conserve fish and wildlife and their habitat; 
                and
                    (C) to provide for diversity of native and desirable 
                non-native plants, animals, opportunities for hunting 
                and fishing, and environmental education.
            (3) Status of unit.--The Secretary may administer the 
        Recreation Area as a separate unit of the National Forest System 
        or in conjunction with an existing national forest.

    (c) Area Included.--
            (1) In general.--The Recreation Area shall comprise the 
        federally owned land, water, and interests in the land and water 
        lying between Kentucky Lake and Lake Barkley in the States of 
        Kentucky and Tennessee, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Land Between the Lakes National Recreation Area--
        January, 1998''.
            (2) Map.--The map described in paragraph (1) shall be 
        available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of 
        the Forest Service, Washington, D.C.

    (d) Waters.--
            (1) Water levels and navigation.--Nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction of the Tennessee Valley Authority or 
        the Army Corps of Engineers to manage and regulate water levels 
        and navigation of Kentucky Lake and Lake Barkley and areas 
        subject to flood easements.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-313]]

            (2) Occupancy and use.--Subject to the jurisdiction of the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority and the Army Corps of Engineers, the 
        Secretary shall have jurisdiction to regulate the occupancy and 
        use of the surface waters of the lakes for recreational 
        purposes.

SEC. 512. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-12.>> CIVIL AND CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.

    (a) Administration.--The Secretary, acting through the Chief of the 
Forest Service, shall administer the Recreation Area in accordance with 
this title and the laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to the 
National Forest System.
    (b) Status.--Land within the Recreation Area shall have the status 
of land acquired under the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly known as the 
``Weeks Act'') (16 U.S.C. 515 et seq.).
    (c) Law Enforcement.--In order to provide for a cost-effective 
transfer of the law enforcement responsibilities between the Forest 
Service and the Tennessee Valley Authority, the law enforcement 
authorities designated under section 4A of the Tennessee Valley 
Authority Act 1933 (16 U.S.C. 831c-3) are hereby granted to special 
agents and law enforcement officers of the Forest Service. The law 
enforcement authorities designated under the eleventh undesignated 
paragraph under the heading ``Surveying the public lands'' of the Act of 
June 4, 1897 (30 Stat. 35; 16 U.S.C. 551), the first paragraph of that 
portion designated ``General Expenses, Forest Service'' of the Act of 
March 3, 1905 (33 U.S.C. 873; 16 U.S.C. 559), the National Forest System 
Drug Control Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 559b-559g) are hereby granted to law 
enforcement agents of the Tennessee Valley Authority, within the 
boundaries of the Recreation Area, for a period of 1 year from the date 
on which this section takes effect.

SEC. 513. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-13.>>  PAYMENTS TO STATES AND COUNTIES.

    (a) Payments in Lieu of Taxes.--Land within the Recreation Area 
shall be subject to the provisions for payments in lieu of taxes under 
chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Distribution.--All amounts received from charges, use fees, and 
natural resource utilization, including
timber and agricultural receipts, shall not be subject to distribution 
to States under the Act of May 23, 1908 (16 U.S.C. 500).

    (c) Payments by the Tennessee Valley Authority.--After the transfer 
of administrative jurisdiction is made under section 541--
            (1) the Tennessee Valley Authority shall continue to 
        calculate the amount of payments to be made to States and 
        counties under section 13 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act 
        of 1933 (16 U.S.C. 831l); and
            (2) each State (including, for the purposes of this 
        subsection, the State of Kentucky, the State of Tennessee, and 
        any other State) that receives a payment under that section 
        shall continue to calculate the amounts to be distributed to the 
        State and local governments, as though the transfer had not been 
        made.

SEC. 514. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-14.>>  FOREST HIGHWAYS.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of section 204 of title 23, United 
States Code, the road known as ``The Trace'' and every other paved road 
within the Recreation Area (including any road constructed to secondary 
standards) shall be considered to be a forest highway.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-314]]

    (b) State Responsibility.--
            (1) In general.--The States shall be responsible for the 
        maintenance of forest highways within the Recreation Area.
            (2) Reimbursement.--To the maximum extent provided by law, 
        from funds appropriated to the Department of Transportation and 
        available for purposes of highway construction and maintenance, 
        the Secretary of Transportation shall reimburse the States for 
        all or a portion of the costs of maintenance of forest highways 
        in the Recreation Area.

                    Subtitle B--Management Provisions

SEC. 521. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-21.>>  LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
            PLAN.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the effective date of 
the transfer of jurisdiction under section 541, the Secretary shall 
prepare a land and resource management plan for the Recreation Area in 
conformity with the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 
472a et seq.) and other applicable law.
    (b) Interim Provision.--Until adoption of the land and resource 
management plan, the Secretary may use, as appropriate, the existing 
Tennessee Valley Authority Natural Resource Management Plan to provide 
interim management direction. Use of all or a portion of the management 
plan by the Secretary shall not be considered to be a major Federal 
action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.

SEC. 522. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-22.>>  ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
transfer pursuant to section 541, the Secretary shall establish the Land 
Between the Lakes Advisory Board.
    (b) Membership.--The Advisory Board shall be composed of 17 members, 
of whom--
            (1) 4 individuals shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
        including--
                    (A) 2 residents of the State of Kentucky; and
                    (B) 2 residents of the State of Tennessee;
            (2) 2 individuals shall be appointed by the Kentucky Fish 
        and Wildlife Commissioner or designee;
            (3) 1 individual shall be appointed by the Tennessee Fish 
        and Wildlife Commission or designee;
            (4) 2 individuals shall be appointed by the Governor of the 
        State of Tennessee;
            (5) 2 individuals shall be appointed by the Governor of the 
        State of Kentucky; and
            (6) 2 individuals shall be appointed by appropriate 
        officials of each of the 3 counties containing the Recreation 
        Area.

    (c) Term.--
            (1) In general.--The term of a member of the Advisory Board 
        shall be 5 years.
            (2) Succession.--Members of the Advisory Board may not 
        succeed themselves.

    (d) Chairperson.--The Regional Forester shall serve as chairperson 
of the Advisory Board.
    (e) Rules of Procedure.--The Secretary shall prescribe the rules of 
procedure for the Advisory Board.
    (f) Functions.--The Advisory Board may advise the Secretary on--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-315]]

            (1) means of promoting public participation for the land and 
        resource management plan for the Recreation Area; and
            (2) environmental education.

    (g) Meetings.--
            (1) Frequency.--The Advisory Board shall meet at least 
        biannually.
            (2) Public meeting.--A meeting of the Advisory Board shall 
        be open to the general public.
            (3) Notice of meetings.--The chairperson, through the 
        placement of notices in local news media and by other 
        appropriate means shall give 2 weeks' public notice of each 
        meeting of the Advisory Board.

    (h) No Termination.--Section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Advisory Board.

SEC. 523. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-23.>>  FEES.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary may charge reasonable fees for 
admission to and the use of the designated sites, or for activities, 
within the Recreation Area.
    (b) Factors.--In determining whether to charge fees, the Secretary 
may consider the costs of collection weighed against potential income.
    (c) Limitation.--No general entrance fees shall be charged within 
the Recreation Area.

SEC. 524. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-24.>> DISPOSITION OF RECEIPTS.

    (a) In General.--All amounts received from charges, use fees, and 
natural resource utilization, including timber and agricultural 
receipts, shall be deposited in a special fund in the Treasury of the 
United States to be known as the ``Land Between the Lakes Management 
Fund''.
    (b) Use.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Secretary 
until expended, without further Act of appropriation, for the management 
of the Recreation Area, including payment of salaries and expenses.

SEC. 525. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-25.>>  SPECIAL USE AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to other authorities for the 
authorization of special uses within the National Forest System, within 
the Recreation Area, the Secretary may, on such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary may prescribe--
            (1) convey for no consideration perpetual easements to 
        governmental units for public roads over United States Route 68 
        and the Trace, and such other rights-of-way as the Secretary and 
        a governmental unit may agree;
            (2) transfer or lease to governmental units developed 
        recreation sites or other facilities to be managed for public 
        purposes; and
            (3) lease or authorize recreational sites or other 
        facilities, consistent with sections 503(2) and 511(b)(2).

    (b) Consideration.--
            (1) In general.--Consideration for a lease or other special 
        use authorization within the Recreation Area shall be based on 
        fair market value.
            (2) Reduction or waiver.--The Secretary may reduce or waive 
        a fee to a governmental unit or nonprofit organization

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-316]]

        commensurate with other consideration provided to the United 
        States, as determined by the Secretary.

    (c) Procedure.--The Secretary may use any fair and equitable method 
for authorizing special uses within the Recreation Area, including 
public solicitation of proposals.
    (d) Existing Authorizations.--
            (1) In general.--A permit or other authorization granted by 
        the Tennessee Valley Authority that is in effect on the date of 
        transfer pursuant to section 541 may continue on transfer of 
        administration of the Recreation Area to the Secretary.
            (2) Reissuance.--A permit or authorization described in 
        paragraph (1) may be reissued or terminated under terms and 
        conditions prescribed by the Secretary.
            (3) Exercise of rights.--The Secretary may exercise any of 
        the rights of the Tennessee Valley Authority contained in any 
        permit or other authorization, including any right to amend, 
        modify, and revoke the permit or authorization.

SEC. 526. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-26.>>  COOPERATIVE AUTHORITIES AND 
            GIFTS.

    (a) Fish and Wildlife Service.--
            (1) Management.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to such terms and 
                conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary 
                may issue a special use authorization to the United 
                States Fish and Wildlife Service for the management by 
                the Service of facilities and land agreed on by the 
                Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior.
                    (B) Fees.--
                          (i) In general.--Reasonable admission and use 
                      fees may be charged for all areas administered by 
                      the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
                          (ii) Deposit.--The fees shall be deposited in 
                      accordance with section 524.
            (2) Cooperation.--The Secretary and the Secretary of the 
        Interior may cooperate or act jointly on activities such as 
        population monitoring and inventory of fish and wildlife with 
        emphasis on migratory birds and endangered and threatened 
        species, environmental education, visitor services, conservation 
        demonstration projects and scientific research.
            (3) Subordination of fish and wildlife activities to overall 
        management.--The management and use of areas and facilities 
        under permit to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service as 
        authorized pursuant to this section shall be subordinate to the 
        overall management of the Recreation Area as directed by the 
        Secretary.

    (b) Authorities.--For the management, maintenance, operation, and 
interpretation of the Recreation Area and its facilities, the Secretary 
may--
            (1) make grants and enter into contracts and cooperative 
        agreements with Federal agencies, governmental units, nonprofit 
        organizations, corporations, and individuals; and
            (2) accept gifts under Public Law 95-442 (7 U.S.C. 2269) 
        notwithstanding that the donor conducts business with any agency 
        of the Department of Agriculture or is regulated by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-317]]

SEC. 527. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-27.>> DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL RECREATION 
            TRAIL.

    Effective on the date of transfer pursuant to section 541, the 
North-South Trail is designated as a national recreation trail under 
section 4 of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1243).

SEC. 528. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-28.>>  CEMETERIES.

    The Secretary shall maintain an inventory of and ensure access to 
cemeteries within the Recreation Area for purposes of burial, 
visitation, and maintenance.

SEC. 529. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-29.>> RESOURCE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Minerals.--
            (1) Withdrawal.--The land within the Recreation Area is 
        withdrawn from the operation of the mining and mineral leasing 
        laws of the United States.
            (2) Use of mineral materials.--The Secretary may permit the 
        use of common varieties of mineral materials for the development 
        and maintenance of the Recreation Area.

    (b) Hunting and Fishing.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall permit hunting and 
        fishing on land and water under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary within the boundaries of the Recreation Area in 
        accordance with applicable laws of the United States and of each 
        State, respectively.
            (2) Prohibition.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may designate areas 
                where, and establish periods when, hunting or fishing is 
                prohibited for reasons of public safety, administration, 
                or public use and enjoyment.
                    (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, a 
                prohibition under subparagraph (A) shall become 
                effective only after consultation with the appropriate 
                fish and game departments of the States.
            (3) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
        jurisdiction or responsibilities of the States with respect to 
        wildlife and fish on national forests.

SEC. 530. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-30.>> HEMATITE DAM.

    Within one year from the date of transfer pursuant to section 541, 
the Tennessee Valley Authority shall cause any breach in the Hematite 
Dam to be repaired, or if such repairs have previously been made, the 
Tennessee Valley Authority shall certify in a letter to the Secretary 
the sound condition of the dam. Future repair costs and maintenance of 
the Hematite Dam shall be the responsibility of the Secretary.

SEC. 531. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-31.>> TRUST FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a special interest-bearing fund known as the ``Land 
Between the Lakes Trust Fund''.
    (b) Availability.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the 
Secretary, until expended, for--
            (1) public education, grants, and internships related to 
        recreation, conservation, and multiple use land management in 
        the Recreation Area; and
            (2) regional promotion in the Recreation Area, in 
        cooperation with development districts, chambers of commerce, 
        and State and local governments.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-318]]

    (c) Deposits.--The Tennessee Valley Authority shall deposit into the 
Fund $1,000,000 annually for each of the 5 fiscal years commencing in 
the first fiscal year of the transfer. Funding to carry out this section 
shall be derived from funding described in section 549.

                     Subtitle C--Transfer Provisions

SEC. 541. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-41.>> EFFECTIVE DATE OF TRANSFER.

    Effective on October 1 of the first fiscal year for which Congress 
does not appropriate to the Tennessee Valley Authority at least 
$6,000,000 for the Recreation Area, or, if this Act is enacted during a 
fiscal year for which Congress has not made such an appropriation, 
effective as of the date of enactment of this Act, administrative 
jurisdiction over the Recreation Area is transferred from the Tennessee 
Valley Authority to the Secretary.

SEC. 542. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-42.>>  STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States that, to the maximum extent 
practicable--
            (1) the transfer of jurisdiction over the Recreation Area 
        from the Tennessee Valley Authority to the Secretary should be 
        effected in an efficient and cost-effective manner; and
            (2) due consideration should be given to minimizing--
                    (A) disruption of the personal lives of the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority and Forest Service employees; 
                and
                    (B) adverse impacts on permittees, contractees, and 
                others owning or operating businesses affected by the 
                transfer.

SEC. 543. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-43.>>  MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of transfer 
pursuant to section 541, the Secretary and the Tennessee Valley 
Authority shall enter into a memorandum of agreement concerning 
implementation of this title.
    (b) Provisions.--The memorandum of understanding shall provide 
procedures for--
            (1) the orderly withdrawal of officers and employees of the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority;
            (2) the transfer of property, fixtures, and facilities;
            (3) the interagency transfer of officers and employees;
            (4) the transfer of records; and
            (5) other transfer issues.

    (c) Transition Team.--
            (1) In general.--The memorandum of understanding may provide 
        for a transition team consisting of the Tennessee Valley 
        Authority and Forest Service employees.
            (2) Duration.--The team may continue in existence after the 
        date of transfer.
            (3) Personnel costs.--The Tennessee Valley Authority and the 
        Forest Service shall pay personnel costs of their respective 
        team members.

SEC. 544. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-44.>>  RECORDS.

    (a) Recreation Area Records.--The Secretary shall have access to all 
records of the Tennessee Valley Authority pertaining to the management 
of the Recreation Area.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-319]]

    (b) Personnel Records.--The Tennessee Valley Authority personnel 
records shall be made available to the Secretary, on request, to the 
extent the records are relevant to Forest Service administration.
    (c) Confidentiality.--The Tennessee Valley Authority may prescribe 
terms and conditions on the availability of records to protect the 
confidentiality of private or proprietary information.
    (d) Land Title Records.--The Tennessee Valley Authority shall 
provide to the Secretary original records pertaining to land titles, 
surveys, and other records pertaining to transferred personal property 
and facilities.

SEC. 545. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-45.>>  TRANSFER OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

    (a) Subject Property.--
            (1) Inventory.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        transfer pursuant to section 541, the Tennessee Valley Authority 
        shall provide the Secretary with an inventory of all property 
        and facilities at the Recreation Area.
            (2) Availability for transfer.--
                    (A) In general.--All Tennessee Valley Authority 
                property associated with the administration of the 
                Recreation Area, including any property purchased with 
                Federal funds appropriated for the management of the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority land, shall be available for 
                transfer to the Secretary.
                    (B) Property included.--Property under subparagraph 
                (A) includes buildings, office furniture and supplies, 
                computers, office equipment, buildings, vehicles, tools, 
                equipment, maintenance supplies, boats, engines, and 
                publications.
            (3) Exclusion of property.--At the request of the authorized 
        representative of the Tennessee
Valley Authority, the Secretary may exclude movable property from 
transfer based on a showing by the Tennessee Valley Authority that the 
property is vital to the mission of the Tennessee Valley Authority and 
cannot be replaced in a cost-effective manner, if the Secretary 
determines that the property is not needed for management of the 
Recreation Area.

    (b) Designation.--Pursuant to such procedures as may be prescribed 
in the memorandum of agreement entered into under section 543, the 
Secretary shall identify and designate, in writing, all Tennessee Valley 
Authority property to be transferred to the Secretary.
    (c) Facilitation of Transfer.--The Tennessee Valley Authority shall, 
to the maximum extent practicable, use current personnel to facilitate 
the transfer of necessary property and facilities to the Secretary, 
including replacement of signs and insignia, repainting of vehicles, 
printing of public information, and training of new personnel. Funding 
for these costs shall be derived from funding described in section 549.
    (d) Surplus Property.--
            (1) Disposition.--Any personal property, including 
        structures and facilities, that the Secretary determines cannot 
        be efficiently managed and maintained either by the Forest 
        Service or by lease or permit to other persons may be declared 
        excess by the Secretary and--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-320]]

                    (A) sold by the Secretary on such terms and 
                conditions as the Secretary may prescribe to achieve the 
                maximum benefit to the Federal Government; or
                    (B) disposed of under the Federal Property and 
                Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Deposit of proceeds.--All net proceeds from the disposal 
        of any property shall be deposited into the Fund established by 
        section 531.

SEC. 546. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-46.>>  COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL 
            LAWS.

    (a) Documentation of Existing Conditions.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        transfer pursuant to section 541, the Chairman and the 
        Administrator shall provide the Secretary all documentation and 
        information that exists on the environmental condition of the 
        land and waters comprising the Recreation Area property.
            (2) Additional documentation.--The Chairman and the 
        Administrator shall provide the Secretary with any additional 
        documentation and information regarding the environmental 
        condition of the Recreation Area property as such documentation 
        and information becomes available.

    (b) Action Required.--
            (1) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        transfer pursuant to section 541, the Chairman shall provide to 
        the Secretary an assessment indicating what action, if any, is 
        required under any environmental law on Recreation Area 
        property.
            (2) Memorandum of understanding.--If the assessment 
        concludes action is required under any environmental law with 
        respect to any portion of the Recreation Area property, the 
        Secretary and the Chairman shall enter into a memorandum of 
        understanding that--
                    (A) provides for the performance by the Chairman of 
                the required actions identified in the assessment; and
                    (B) includes a schedule providing for the prompt 
                completion of the required actions to the satisfaction 
                of the Secretary.

    (c) Documentation Demonstrating Action.--On the transfer of 
jurisdiction over the Recreation Area from the Tennessee Valley 
Authority to the Secretary, the Chairman shall provide the Secretary 
with documentation
demonstrating that all actions required under any environmental law have 
been taken, including all response actions under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) that are necessary to protect human health and the 
environment with respect to any hazardous substance, pollutant, 
contaminant, hazardous waste, hazardous material, or petroleum product 
or derivative of a petroleum product on Recreation Area property.

    (d) Continuation of Responsibilities and Liabilities.--
            (1) In general.--The transfer of the Recreation Area 
        property under this title, and the requirements of this section, 
        shall not in any way affect the responsibilities and liabilities 
        of the Tennessee Valley Authority at the Recreation Area under 
        the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) or any other 
        environmental law.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-321]]

            (2) Access.--After transfer of the Recreation Area property, 
        the Chairman shall be accorded any access to the property that 
        may be reasonably required to carry out the responsibility or 
        satisfy the liability referred to in paragraph (1).
            (3) No liability.--The Secretary shall not be liable under 
        any environmental law for matters that are related directly or 
        indirectly to present or past activities of the Tennessee Valley 
        Authority on the Recreation Area property, including liability 
        for--
                    (A) costs or performance of response actions 
                required under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 
                et seq.) at or related to the Recreation Area; or
                    (B) costs, penalties, fines, or performance of 
                actions related to noncompliance with any environmental 
                law at or related to the Recreation Area or related to 
                the presence, release, or threat of release of any 
                hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant, 
                hazardous waste, hazardous material, or petroleum 
                product or derivative of a petroleum product of any kind 
                at or related to the Recreation Area, including 
                contamination resulting from migration.
            (4) No effect on responsibilities or liabilities.--Except as 
        provided in paragraph (3), nothing in this title affects, 
        modifies, amends, repeals, alters, limits or otherwise changes, 
        directly or indirectly, the responsibilities or liabilities 
        under any environmental law with respect to the Secretary.

    (e) Other Federal Agencies.--Subject to the other provisions of this 
section, a Federal agency that carried or carries out operations at the 
Recreation Area resulting in the release or threatened release of a 
hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant, hazardous waste, 
hazardous material, or petroleum product or derivative of a petroleum 
product for which that agency would be liable under any environmental 
law shall pay the costs of related response actions and shall pay the 
costs of related actions to remediate petroleum products or their 
derivatives.

SEC. 547. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-47.>>  PERSONNEL.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Hiring.--Notwithstanding section 3503 of title 5, United 
        States Code, and subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may--
                    (A) appoint, hire, and discharge officers and 
                employees to administer the Recreation Area; and
                    (B) pay the officers and employees at levels that 
                are commensurate with levels at other units of the 
                National Forest System.
            (2) Interim retention of eligible employees.--
                    (A) In general.--For a period of not less than 5 
                months after the effective date of transfer to the 
                Forest Service--
                          (i) all eligible employees shall be retained 
                      in the employment of the Tennessee Valley 
                      Authority;
                          (ii) those eligible employees shall be 
                      considered to be placed on detail to the Secretary 
                      and shall be subject to the direction of the 
                      Secretary; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-322]]

                          (iii) the Secretary shall reimburse the 
                      Tennessee Valley Authority for the amount of the 
                      basic pay and all other compensation of those 
                      eligible employees.
                    (B) Notice to employees.--The Secretary shall 
                provide eligible employees a written notice of not less 
                than 60 days before termination.
                    (C) Termination for cause.--Subparagraph (A) does 
                not preclude a termination for cause during the period 
                described in subparagraph (A).

    (b) Applications for Transfer and Appointment.--An eligible employee 
shall have the right to apply for employment by the Secretary under 
procedures for transfer and appointment of Federal employees outside the 
Department of Agriculture.
    (c) Hiring by the Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (b), in filling 
        personnel positions within the Recreation Area, the Secretary 
        shall follow all laws (including regulations) and policies 
        applicable to the Department of Agriculture.
            (2) Notification and hiring.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) shall notify all eligible employees of all 
                openings for positions with the Forest Service at the 
                Recreation Area before notifying other individuals or 
                considering applications by other individuals for the 
                positions; and
                    (B) after applications by eligible employees have 
                received consideration, if any positions remain 
                unfilled, shall notify other individuals of the 
                openings.
            (3) Noncompetitive appointments.--Notwithstanding any other 
        placement of career transition programs authorized by the Office 
        of Personnel Management of the United States Department of 
        Agriculture, the Secretary may noncompetitively appoint eligible 
        employees to positions in the Recreation Area.
            (4) Period of service.--Except to the extent that an 
        eligible employee that is appointed by the Secretary may be 
        otherwise compensated for the period of service as an employee 
        of the Tennessee Valley Authority, that period of service shall 
        be treated as a period of service as an employee of the 
        Secretary for the purposes of probation, career tenure, time-in-
        grade, and leave.

    (d) Transfer to Positions in Other Units of the Tennessee Valley 
Authority.--The Tennessee Valley Authority--
            (1) shall notify all eligible employees of all openings for 
        positions in other units of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
        before notifying other individuals or considering applications 
        by other individuals for the positions; and
            (2) after applications by eligible employees have received 
        consideration, if any positions remain unfilled, shall notify 
        other individuals of the openings.

    (e) Employee Benefit Transition.--
            (1) Memorandum of understanding.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary and the heads of the 
                Office of Personnel Management, the Tennessee Valley 
                Authority and the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement 
                System shall enter into a memorandum of understanding 
                providing for the transition for all eligible employees 
                of compensation made available through the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority Retirement System.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-323]]

                    (B) Employee participation.--In deciding on the 
                terms of the memorandum of understanding, the Secretary 
                and the heads of the Office of Personnel Management, the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority and the Tennessee Valley 
                Authority Retirement System shall meet and consult with 
                and give full consideration to the views of employees 
                and representatives of the employees of the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority.
            (2) Eligible employees that are transferred to other units 
        of tva.--An eligible employee that is transferred to another 
        unit of the Tennessee Valley Authority shall experience no 
        interruption in coverage for or reduction of any retirement, 
        health, leave, or other employee benefit.
            (3) Eligible employees that are hired by the secretary.--
                    (A) Level of benefits.--The Secretary shall provide 
                to an eligible employee that is hired by the Forest 
                Service a level of retirement and health benefits that 
                is equivalent to the level to which the eligible 
                employee would have been entitled if the eligible 
                employee had remained an employee of the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority.
                    (B) Transfer of retirement benefits.--
                          (i) In general.--Eligible employees hired by 
                      the Forest Service shall become members of the 
                      Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) Offset Plan 
                      and shall have the option to transfer into the 
                      Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) within 
                      six months of their date of transfer. Such 
                      employees shall have the option at any time to 
                      receive credit in CSRS Offset or FERS for all of 
                      their TVA service in accordance with applicable 
                      procedures. Any deposits necessary to receive 
                      credit for such service shall be considered 
                      transfers to a qualified plan for purposes of 
                      favorable tax treatment of such amount under the 
                      Internal Revenue Code.
                          (ii) Funding shortfall.--
                                    (I) In general.--For all eligible 
                                employees that are not part of the Civil 
                                Service Retirement System, the Tennessee 
                                Valley Authority shall meet any funding 
                                shortfall resulting from the transfer of 
                                retirement benefits.
                                    (II) Notification.--The Secretary 
                                shall notify the Tennessee Valley 
                                Authority Board of the cost associated 
                                with the transfer of retirement 
                                benefits.
                                    (III) Payment.--The Tennessee Valley 
                                Authority shall fully compensate the 
                                Secretary for the costs associated with 
                                the transfer of retirement benefits.
                                    (IV) No interruption.--An eligible 
                                employee that is hired by the Forest 
                                Service and is eligible for Civil 
                                Service Retirement shall not experience 
                                any interruption in retirement benefits.
                    (C) No interruption.--An eligible employee that is 
                hired by the Secretary--
                          (i) shall experience no interruption in 
                      coverage for any health, leave, or other employee 
                      benefit; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-324]]

                          (ii) shall be entitled to carry over any leave 
                      time accumulated during employment by the 
                      Tennessee Valley Authority.
                    (D) Period of service.--Notwithstanding section 
                8411(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, except to the 
                extent that an eligible employee may be otherwise 
                compensated (including the provision of retirement 
                benefits in accordance with the memorandum of 
                understanding) for the period of service as an employee 
                of the Tennessee Valley Authority, that period of 
                service shall be treated as a period of service as an 
                employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture for all 
                purposes relating to the Federal employment of the 
                eligible employee.
            (4) Eligible employees that are discharged not for cause.--
                    (A) Level of benefits.--The parties to the 
                memorandum of understanding shall have authority to deem 
                any applicable requirement to
be met, to make payments to an employee, or take any other action 
necessary to provide to an eligible employee that is discharged as being 
excess to the needs of the Tennessee Valley Authority or the Secretary 
and not for cause and that does not accept an offer of employment from 
the Secretary, an optimum level of retirement and health benefits that 
is equivalent to the level that has been afforded employees discharged 
in previous reductions in force by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
                    (B) Minimum benefits.--An eligible employee that is 
                discharged as being excess to the needs of the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority or the Secretary and not for cause 
                shall, at a minimum be entitled to--
                          (i) at the option of the eligible employee--
                                    (I) a lump-sum equal to $1,000, 
                                multiplied by the number of years of 
                                service of the eligible employee (but 
                                not less that $15,000 nor more than 
                                $25,000);
                                    (II) a lump-sum payment equal to the 
                                amount of pay earned by the eligible 
                                employee for the last 26 weeks of the 
                                eligible employee's service; or
                                    (III) the deemed addition of 5 years 
                                to the age and the years of service of 
                                an eligible employee;
                          (ii) 15 months of health benefits for 
                      employees and dependents at the same level 
                      provided as of the date of transfer pursuant to 
                      section 541;
                          (iii) 1 week of pay per year of service as 
                      provided by the Tennessee Valley Authority 
                      Retirement System;
                          (iv) a lump-sum payment of all accumulated 
                      annual leave;
                          (v) unemployment compensation in accordance 
                      with State law;
                          (vi) eligible pension benefits as provided by 
                      the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement System; 
                      and
                          (vii) retraining assistance provided by the 
                      Tennessee Valley Authority.
                    (C) Shortfall.--If the board of directors of the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement System determines

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-325]]

                that the cost of providing the benefits described in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) would have a negative impact 
                on the overall retirement system, the Tennessee Valley 
                Authority shall be required to meet any funding 
                shortfalls.

SEC. 548. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-48.>>  TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY 
            TRANSFER COSTS.

    Any costs incurred by Tennessee Valley Authority associated with the 
transfer under this subtitle shall be derived from funding described in 
section 549.

SEC. 549. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-49.>>  TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY 
            TRANSFER FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--The funding described in this section is funding 
derived from only 1 or more of the following sources:
            (1) Nonpower fund balances and collections.
            (2) Investment returns of the nonpower program.
            (3) Applied programmatic savings in the power and nonpower 
        programs.
            (4) Savings from the suspension of bonuses and awards.
            (5) Savings from reductions in memberships and 
        contributions.
            (6) Increases in collections resulting from nonpower 
        activities, including user fees.
            (7) Increases in charges to private and public utilities 
        both investor and cooperatively owned, as well as to direct load 
        customers.

    (b) Availability.--Funds from the sources described in subsection 
(a) shall be available notwithstanding section 11, 14, 15, or 29 or any 
other provision of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 (16 U.S.C. 
831 et seq.) or any provisions of the covenants contained in any power 
bonds issued by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
    (c) Sufficiency of Savings.--The savings from and the revenue 
adjustment to the budget of the Tennessee Valley Authority for the first 
fiscal year of the transfer and each fiscal year thereafter shall be 
sufficient so that the net spending authority and resulting outlays to 
carry out activities with funding described in subsection (a) shall not 
exceed $0 for the first fiscal year of the transfer and each fiscal year 
thereafter.
    (d) Itemized List of Reductions and Increased Receipts.--
            (1) Proposed changes.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        of transfer pursuant to section 541, the Chairman of the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority shall submit to the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate an itemized list of the amounts 
        of reductions in spending and increases in receipts that are 
        proposed to be made as a result of activities under this 
        subsection during the first fiscal year of the transfer.
            (2) Actual changes.--Not later than 24 months after the 
        effective date of the transfer, the Chairman of the Tennessee 
        Valley Authority shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate an itemized list of the amounts of 
        reductions in spending and increases in receipts as a result of 
        activities under this subsection during the first fiscal year of 
        the transfer.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-326]]

                           Subtitle D--Funding

SEC. 551. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460lll-61.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Agriculture.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Agriculture such sums as are necessary to--
            (1) permit the Secretary to exercise administrative 
        jurisdiction over the Recreation Area under this title; and
            (2) administer the Recreation Area area as a unit of the 
        National Forest System.

    (b) Interior.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of the Interior such sums as are necessary to carry out 
activities within the Recreation Area.

                                TITLE VI

      <<NOTE: Interstate 90 Land Exchange Act of 1998. 16 USC 539k 
note.>> INTERSTATE 90 LAND EXCHANGE ACT

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Interstate 90 Land Exchange Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 602. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) certain parcels of private land located in central and 
        southwest Washington are intermingled with National Forest 
        System land owned by the United States and administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture as parts of the Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie 
        National Forest, Wenatchee National Forest, and Gifford Pinchot 
        National Forest;
            (2) the private land surface estate and some subsurface is 
        owned by the Plum Creek Timber Company, L.P. in an intermingled 
        checkerboard pattern, with the United States or Plum Creek 
        owning alternate square mile sections of land or fractions of 
        square mile sections;
            (3) the checkerboard land ownership pattern in the area has 
        frustrated sound and efficient land management on both private 
        and National Forest lands by complicating fish and wildlife 
        habitat management, watershed protection, recreation use, road 
        construction and timber harvest, boundary administration, and 
        protection and management of threatened and endangered species 
        and old growth forest habitat;
            (4) acquisition by the United States of certain parcels of 
        land that have been offered by Plum Creek for addition to the 
        Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest and Wenatchee National 
        Forest will serve important public objectives, including--
                    (A) enhancement of public access, aesthetics and 
                recreation opportunities within or near areas of very 
                heavy public recreational use including--
                          (i) the Alpine Lakes Wilderness Area;
                          (ii) the Pacific Crest Trail;
                          (iii) Snoqualmie Pass;
                          (iv) Cle Elum Lake, Kachess Lake and Keechulus 
                      Lake; and
                          (v) other popular recreation areas along the 
                      Interstate 90 corridor east of the Seattle-Tacoma 
                      Metropolitan Area;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-327]]

                    (B) protection and enhancement of old growth forests 
                and habitat for threatened, endangered and sensitive 
                species, including a net gain of approximately 28,500 
                acres of habitat for the northern spotted owl;
                    (C) consolidation of National Forest holdings for 
                more efficient administration and to meet a broad array 
                of ecosystem protection and other public land management 
                goals, including net public gains of approximately 283 
                miles of stream ownership, 14 miles of the route of the 
                Pacific Crest Trail, 20,000 acres of unroaded land, and 
                7,360 acres of riparian land; and
                    (D) a significant reduction in administrative costs 
                to the United States through--
                          (i) consolidation of Federal land holdings for 
                      more efficient land management and planning;
                          (ii) elimination of approximately 300 miles of 
                      boundary identification and posting;
                          (iii) reduced right-of-way, special use, and 
                      other permit processing and issuance for roads and 
                      other facilities on National Forest System land; 
                      and
                          (iv) other administrative cost savings;
            (5) Plum Creek has selected certain parcels of National 
        Forest System land that are logical for
consolidation into Plum Creek ownership utilizing a land exchange 
because the parcels--
                    (A) are intermingled with parcels owned by Plum 
                Creek; and
                    (B)(i) are generally located in less environmentally 
                sensitive areas than the Plum Creek offered land; and
                    (ii) have lower public recreation and other public 
                values than the Plum Creek offered land;
            (6) time is of the essence in consummating a land exchange 
        because delays may force Plum Creek to road or log the offered 
        land and thereby diminish the public values for which the 
        offered land is to be acquired; and
            (7) it is in the public interest to complete the land 
        exchange at the earliest practicable date so that the offered 
        land can be acquired and preserved by the United States for 
        permanent public management, use, and enjoyment.

    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this Act to further the public 
interest by authorizing, directing, facilitating, and expediting the 
consummation of the Interstate 90 land exchange so as to ensure that the 
offered land is expeditiously acquired for permanent public use and 
enjoyment.

SEC. 603. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Offered land.--The term ``offered land'' means all 
        right, title and interest, including the surface and subsurface 
        interests, in land described in section 604(a) to be conveyed 
        into the public ownership of the United States under this Act.
            (2) Plum creek.--The term ``Plum Creek'' means Plum Creek 
        Timber Company, L.P., a Delaware Limited Partnership, or its 
        successors, heirs, or assigns.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-328]]

            (4) Selected land.--The term ``selected land'' means all 
        right, title and interest, including the surface and subsurface 
        interests, unless Plum Creek agrees otherwise, in land described 
        in section 604(b) to be conveyed into the private ownership of 
        Plum Creek under this Act.

SEC. 604. LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Condition and Conveyance of Offered Land.--The exchange directed 
by this Act shall be consummated if Plum Creek conveys title acceptable 
to the Secretary in and to the lands described in subsection (d), the 
offered lands described in paragraphs (1) and (2), or, if necessary, the 
lands and interests in land as provided in subsection (c).
            (1) Certain land comprising approximately 8,808 acres and 
        located within the exterior boundaries of the Mt. Baker-
        Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington, as generally depicted on 
        a map entitled ``Interstate 90 Land Exchange'', dated October 
        1998; and
            (2) Certain land comprising approximately 53,576 acres and 
        located within or adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the 
        Wenatchee National Forest, Washington, as generally depicted on 
        a map entitled ``Interstate 90 Land Exchange'', dated October 
        1998.

    (b) Conveyance of Selected Land by the United States.--Upon receipt 
of acceptable title to the offered land, and lands and interests 
described in subsection (d), the Secretary shall simultaneously convey 
to Plum Creek all right, title and interest of the United States, 
subject to valid existing rights, in and to the following selected land:
            (1) Certain land administered, as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, by the Secretary of Agriculture as part of the Mt. 
        Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington, and comprising 
        approximately
5,697 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Interstate 90 
Land Exchange'', dated October 1998.
            (2) Certain land administered, as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, by the Secretary of Agriculture as part of the 
        Wenatchee National Forest, Washington, and comprising 
        approximately 5,197 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Interstate 90 Land Exchange'', dated October 1998.
            (3) Certain land administered, as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, by the Secretary of Agriculture as part of the 
        Gifford Pinchot National Forest, Washington, and comprising 
        approximately 5,601 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Interstate 90 Land Exchange'', dated October 1998.

    (c) Offered Land Title.--If Plum Creek conveys title acceptable to 
the Secretary to less than all rights and interests in the offered 
lands, but conveys title acceptable to the Secretary to all rights and 
interests that Plum Creek owns and acquires under previous agreements in 
the lands described in subsection (d), the offered lands, and lands on 
the east and west sides of Cle Elum Lake, comprising approximately 252 
acres, described as Township 21 North, Range 14 East, Section 5, and 
Lost Lake lands comprising approximately 272 acres, described as 
Township 21 North, Range 11 East, W\1/2\ of Section 3, the Secretary 
shall convey to Plum Creek all rights and interest in the selected land 
after the values of the offered and selected land are equalized. The 
values of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-329]]

offered and selected lands shall be equalized as provided in section 
605(c)-(e) without regard to the value of lands described in subsection 
(d) or the Cle Elum or Lost Lake lands.
    (d)  <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> Land Donation.--Plum Creek agrees 
that it will convey, in the form of a voluntary donation, title 
acceptable to the Secretary in and to lands and interests in lands 
comprising approximately 320 acres, described as Township 22 North, 
Range 11 East, S\1/2\ of Section 13, if Plum Creek conveys title to 
lands and interests pursuant to subsections (a) or (c). It is the 
intention of Congress that any portion of such donated land which the 
Secretary determines qualifies as wilderness be, upon the date of its 
acquisition by the United States, incorporated in and managed as part of 
the adjacent Alpine Lakes Wilderness (as designated by Public Law 94-
357) in accordance with section 6(a) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1135).

SEC. 605. EXCHANGE VALUATION, APPRAISALS AND EQUALIZATION.

    (a) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--The values of the offered and selected 
        land--
                    (A) shall be equal; or
                    (B) if the values are not equal, shall be equalized 
                as set forth in subsections (c)-(e).
            (2) Appraisal assumption.--In order to ensure the equitable 
        and uniform appraisal of both the offered and selected land 
        directed for exchange by this Act, all appraisals shall 
        determine the highest and best use of the offered and selected 
        land in
accordance with applicable provisions of the Washington State Forest 
Practices Act and rules and regulations thereunder, including 
alternative measures for protecting critical habitat pursuant to a 
habitat conservation plan as provided in Washington Administrative Code 
222-16-080-(6).
            (3) Appraisals.--The values of the offered land and selected 
        land shall be determined by appraisals utilizing nationally 
        recognized appraisal standards, including applicable provisions 
        of the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions 
        (1992), the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
        Practice, and section 206(d) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1716(d)).
            (4) Approval by the Secretary.--The appraisals, if not 
        already completed by the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
        completed and submitted to the Secretary for approval not later 
        than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, 
        That all timber harvest cease no later than November 30, 1998, 
        except for any cleanup, reforestation, or other post-harvest 
        work which cannot be completed by November 30, 1998. A 
        comprehensive summary of the appraisal consistent with 7 CFR 
        Part 1.11 shall be made available for public inspection in the 
        Office of the Supervisor, Wenatchee National Forest, not less 
        than 30 days nor more than 45 days prior to the exchange of 
        deeds.

    (b) Appraisal Period.--After the final appraised values of the 
offered and selected lands, or any portion of the land, have been 
approved by the Secretary or otherwise determined under section 206(d) 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1716(d)), the 
value shall not be reappraised or updated before

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-330]]

consummation of the land exchange, except to account for any timber 
harvest that might occur after completion of the final appraisal, or for 
any adjustments under section 606(g).
    (c) Equalization if Surplus of Offered Land.--
            (1) In general.--If the final appraised value of the offered 
        land or lands and interest in lands conveyed by Plum Creek under 
        section 604(c), except for the Cle Elum and Lost Lake lands, 
        exceeds the final appraised value of the selected land, Plum 
        Creek shall delete offered land parcels from the exchange in the 
        exact order each land Section (or offered portion thereof) is 
        listed in paragraph (2) until the values are approximately 
        equal.
            (2) Order of deletion.--Offered land deletions under 
        paragraph (1) shall be made in the following order:
                    (A) Township 22 North, Range 13 East, Section 31, 
                Willamette Meridian;
                    (B) Township 21 North, Range 11 East, Section 35;
                    (C) Township 19 North, Range 11 East, Section 35;
                    (D) Township 19 North, Range 12 East, Section 1;
                    (E) Township 20 North, Range 11 East, Sections 1 and 
                13;
                    (F) Township 19 North, Range 12 East, Section 15;
                    (G) Township 20 North, Range 11 East, Section 11;
                    (H) Township 21 North, Range 11 East, Section 27;
                    (I) Township 19 North, Range 13 East, Sections 27 
                and 15;
                    (J) Township 21 North, Range 11 East, Sections 21 
                and 25;
                    (K) Township 19 North, Range 11 East, Section 23;
                    (L) Township 19 North, Range 13 East, Sections 21, 9 
                and 35;
                    (M) Township 20 North, Range 12 East, Sections 35 
                and 27;
                    (N) Township 19 North, Range 12 East, Section 11;
                    (O) Township 21 North, Range 11 East, Section 17;
                    (P) Township 21 North, Range 11 East, Section 5;
                    (Q) Township 18 North, Range 15 East, Section 3;
                    (R) Township 19 North, Range 14 East, Section 25;
                    (S) Township 19 North, Range 15 East, Sections 29 
                and 31; and
                    (T) Township 19 North, Range 13 East, Section 7.

    (d) Equalization if Surplus of Selected Land.--
            (1) In general.--If the final appraised value of the 
        selected land exceeds the final appraised value of the offered 
        land or lands and interest in lands conveyed by Plum Creek under 
        section 604(c), except for the Cle Elum and Lost Lake lands, the 
        Secretary shall delete selected land parcels from the exchange 
        in the exact order each land Section (or selected portion 
        thereof) is listed in paragraph (2) until the values are 
        approximately equal.
            (2) Order of deletion.--Selected land deletions under 
        paragraph 1 shall be made in the following listed order:
                    (A) the portion of Township 20 North, Range 11 East, 
                Section 30 lying east of the thread of Sawmill Creek;
                    (B) the portion of Township 19 North, Range 11 East, 
                Section 6 lying east of the thread of Sawmill Creek;
                    (C) Township 20 North, Range 11 East, Section 32;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-331]]

                    (D) Township 21 North, Range 14 East, Sections 28, 
                22, 36, 26 and 16;
                    (E) Township 18 North, Range 15 East, Sections 13, 
                12 and 2;
                    (F) Township 18 North, Range 15 East, Section 1; and
                    (G) Township 18 North, Range 15 East, Section 17, 
                Willamette Meridian.

    (e) Once the values of the offered and selected lands are equalized 
to the maximum extent practicable under subsections (c) or (d), any cash 
equalization balance due the Secretary or Plum Creek shall be made 
through cash equalization payments under subsection 206(b) of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
    (f) Use of Proceeds by the Secretary.--The amount of any cash 
equalization payment received by the Secretary under this section shall 
be retained by the Secretary and shall be used by the Secretary until 
fully expended to purchase land from willing sellers in the State of 
Washington for addition to the National Forest System.

SEC. 606. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Status of Lands After Exchange.--
            (1) Land acquired by the secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Land acquired by the Secretary 
                under this Act shall become part of the Mt. Baker-
                Snoqualmie, Gifford Pinchot or Wenatchee National 
                Forests, as appropriate.
                    (B) Modification of boundaries.--
                          (1) If any land acquired by the Secretary lies 
                      outside the exterior boundaries of the national 
                      forests identified in subparagraph (A), the 
                      boundaries of the
appropriate national forest are hereby modified to include such land.
                          (2) Nothing in this section shall limit the 
                      authority of the Secretary to adjust the 
                      boundaries of such National Forests pursuant to 
                      section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly 
                      known as the ``Weeks Act'').
                          (3) For purposes of section 7 of the Land and 
                      Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 
                      4601-9) the boundaries of Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie, 
                      Wenatchee and Gifford Pinchot as modified by this 
                      Act shall be considered to be the boundaries of 
                      such forests as of January 1, 1965.
                    (C) Management.--Land acquired by the Secretary 
                under this Act shall have the status of lands acquired 
                under the Act of March 1, 1911 and shall be managed in 
                accordance with the laws, rules, regulations and 
                guidelines applicable to the National Forest System.
            (2) Land acquired by plum creek.--Land acquired by Plum 
        Creek under this Act shall become private land for all purposes 
        of law, unless the deed by which conveyance is made to Plum 
        Creek contains a specific reservation.

    (b) Post-Exchange Access to Land.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that Plum Creek and the 
        Secretary should have adequate and timely post-exchange

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-332]]

        access to lands acquired pursuant to this Act over existing 
        primary, secondary, or other national forest system roads as may 
        be needed.
            (2) Intention.--It is the intention of Congress that Plum 
        Creek have access to all lands it acquires under this Act, and 
        when such access requires construction of new roads, it shall be 
        granted in compliance with the National Environmental Policy 
        Act, the Endangered Species Act, the National Historic 
        Preservation Act, and other applicable laws, rules, and 
        regulations.
            (3) Access within cost share agreement areas.--Within Cost 
        Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, Plum Creek and the 
        Secretary will convey road access, at no cost, to the lands 
        acquired by each party upon consummation of the exchange 
        pursuant to this Act in accordance with the appropriate terms 
        and procedures of said cost share construction and use 
        agreements.
            (4) Access outside cost share agreement areas.--Outside of 
        Cost Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, the Secretary 
        shall grant Plum Creek road access easements at no cost in a 
        form set out in Forest Service Handbook 2709.12, 35. In the case 
        of new road construction, they shall conform to the Secretary's 
        rules and regulations 36 CFR 251, subpart B, for the roads 
        identified on the map entitled ``Plum Creek Access Road Needs'', 
        dated September 1998, including mitigation under existing law.

    (c) Access to Certain Lands Acquired by the United States.--Outside 
of Cost Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, Plum Creek shall 
grant the Secretary road access easements at no cost on the locations 
identified by the Secretary in a format acceptable to the Secretary.
    (d) Timing.--It is the intent of Congress that the land exchange 
authorized and directed by this Act be consummated no later than 270 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary and 
Plum Creek mutually agree to extend the consummation date.
    (e) Withdrawal of Selected Land.--Effective upon the date of 
enactment of this Act, all selected land identified for exchange to Plum 
Creek under section 604(b)
is hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
U.S. mining and mineral leasing laws, including the Geothermal Steam Act 
of 1970, until such time as the exchange is consummated, or until a 
particular parcel or parcels are deleted from the exchange under section 
605(d).

    (f) Withdrawal of Cle Elum River Lands.--Lands acquired by the 
Secretary under this Act that are located in Township 23 North, Range 14 
East, and Township 22 North, Range 14 East, Willamette Meridian, shall 
upon the date of their acquisition be permanently withdrawn from all 
forms of entry and appropriation under the U.S. mining and mineral 
leasing laws, including the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970.
    (g) Parcels Subject to Historic or Cultural Resource Restrictions.--
            (1) Report to plum creek.--No later than 180 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete 
        determinations and consultation under the National Historic 
        Preservation Act and submit a report to Plum Creek and other 
        consulting

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-333]]

        parties under the National Historic Preservation Act listing by 
        exact aliquot part description any parcel or parcels of selected 
        land on which cultural properties have been identified and for 
        which protection, use restrictions or mitigation requirements 
        will be imposed. Such report shall include an exact description 
        of each restriction or mitigation action required.
            (2) Plum creek response.--Within 30 days of receipt of the 
        Secretary's report under paragraph (1), Plum Creek shall notify 
        the Secretary as to: (i) those parcels it will accept subject to 
        the identified use restrictions or mitigation requirements; and 
        (ii) those parcels it will not accept because the restrictions 
        or mitigation requirements are deemed by Plum Creek to be an 
        unacceptable encumbrance on the land.
            (3) Parcel deletion.--The Secretary shall delete from the 
        selected land those parcels identified by Plum Creek as 
        unacceptable for conveyance under paragraph (2).
            (4) Appraisal adjustment.--The fair market value of any 
        parcels deleted under paragraph (3), or any modification in fair 
        market value caused by the use restrictions or mitigation 
        requirements on land accepted by Plum Creek, shall be based on 
        their contributory value to the final approved appraised value 
        of the selected land and subtracted from such value prior to 
        consummation of the exchange.

    (h) Access Limitation.--The Secretary shall not grant any road 
easements that would access the offered lands listed in section 604(a) 
prior to consummation of the exchange: Provided, That this provision 
shall not apply should either party withdraw from the exchange.

SEC. 607. LAND PURCHASE.

    (a) Finding.--The Congress finds that certain lands owned by Plum 
Creek in the vicinity of the offered lands (but which are not included 
in the land exchange under this Act, or are deleted under section 
605(c)) are highly desirable for addition to the National Forest System, 
and that Plum Creek has indicated its willingness to sell certain such 
lands to the United States. It is the intention of Congress that such 
lands be acquired by the United States, subject to the availability of 
funds, by purchase at fair market value consistent with the land 
acquisition procedures of the Secretary, and with the consent of Plum 
Creek, in order to preserve their outstanding scenic and natural values 
for the benefit of future generations.
    (b) Purchase Consultation.--In furtherance of subsection (a), the 
Secretary is authorized and directed to consult with Plum Creek to 
determine the precise lands Plum Creek is willing to sell.
    (c) Other Agreements.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
prohibit the Secretary from entering into
additional agreements or contracts with Plum Creek to purchase, exchange 
or otherwise acquire lands from Plum Creek in Washington or any other 
state under the laws, rules and regulations generally applicable to 
Federal land acquisitions.

SEC. 608. TIETON RIVER STUDY.

    The Secretary is authorized and directed to consult with Plum Creek 
concerning opportunities for the United States to acquire by exchange or 
purchase Plum Creek lands along the Tieton River in Township 14 North, 
Range 15 East, Willamette Meridian.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-334]]

SEC. 609. FUTURE LAND EXCHANGE OPPORTUNITY.

    (a) Finding.--The Congress finds that certain lands which were 
identified for exchange to the United States in the I-90 Land Exchange 
process have been, or may be, deleted from the final exchange under this 
Act due to value equalization or other reasons. However, some or all of 
such deleted lands, or other Plum Creek lands, may possess attributes 
that merit their conveyance to the United States in a follow-up land 
exchange, including lands in or around the Carbon River, the Yakima 
River, the Pacific Crest Trail, Watch Mountain and Goat Mountain on the 
Gifford Pinchot National Forest, the Green River and the Manastash late 
successional reserve.
    (b) Future Exchange.--In furtherance of subsection (a), the 
Secretary is authorized and directed to consult with Plum Creek in 
examining opportunities for the United States to acquire such deleted 
lands, or other Plum Creek lands in the State of Washington, in a future 
exchange.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate 
and the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives briefly outlining future land exchange opportunities 
with Plum Creek, including those for which the Secretary is required to 
consult under section 608, which the Secretary determines merit detailed 
analysis and consideration. The Secretary should identify the most 
urgent acquisitions for purchase or exchange in the report.

SEC. 610. WILDERNESS STUDY AREA.

    In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, if the land 
exchange directed by this Act is consummated, the area of land 
comprising approximately 15,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
entitled ``Alpine Lakes Wilderness Study Area'', dated October 1998, 
shall be reviewed by the Secretary of Agriculture as to its suitability 
for preservation as wilderness. The Secretary shall submit a report and 
findings to the President, and the President shall submit his 
recommendations to the United States House of Representatives and United 
States Senate no later than three years after the date of enactment of 
this Act. Subject to valid existing rights and existing uses, such lands 
shall, until Congress determines otherwise or until December 31, 2003, 
be administered by the Secretary to maintain their wilderness character 
existing as of the date of enactment of this Act and potential for 
inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System, and shall be 
withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the U.S. 
mining and mineral leasing laws, including the Geothermal Steam Act of 
1970.

SEC. 611. <<NOTE: 16 USC 539k.>> KELLY BUTTE SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Upon conveyance to the United States of the Plum 
Creek offered lands in the Kelly Butte area, there is hereby established 
the Kelly Butte Special Management Area in the Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie 
National Forest, Washington, comprising approximately 5,642 acres, as 
generally depicted on a map entitled ``Kelly Butte Special Management 
Area'', dated October 1998.
    (b) Management.--The Kelly Butte Special Management Area shall be 
managed by the Secretary in accordance with the laws, rules and 
regulations generally
applicable to National Forest System lands, and subject to the following 
additional provisions:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-335]]

            (1) the Area shall be managed with special emphasis on:
                    (A) preserving its natural character and protecting 
                and enhancing water quality in the upper Green River 
                watershed;
                    (B) permitting hunting and fishing;
                    (C) providing opportunities for primitive and semi-
                primitive recreation and scientific research and study;
                    (D) protecting and enhancing populations of fish, 
                wildlife and native plant species; and
                    (E) allowing for traditional uses by native American 
                peoples;
            (2) commercial timber harvest and road construction shall be 
        prohibited;
            (3) the Area shall be closed to the use of motor vehicles, 
        except as may be necessary for administrative purposes or in 
        emergencies (including rescue operations) to protect public 
        health and safety; and
            (4) the Area shall, subject to valid existing rights, be 
        permanently withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation 
        under the U.S. mining laws and mineral leasing laws, including 
        the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970.

    (c) No Buffer Zones.--Congress does not intend that the designation 
of the Kelly Butte Special Management Area lead to the creation of 
protective perimeters or buffer zones around the Area. The fact that 
non-compatible activities or uses can be seen or heard from within the 
Kelly Butte Special Management Area shall not, of itself, preclude such 
activities or uses up to the boundary of the Area.

SEC. 612. EFFECT ON COUNTY REVENUES.

    The Secretary shall consult with the appropriate Committees of 
Congress, and local elected officials in the counties in the State of 
Washington in which the offered lands are located, regarding options to 
minimize the adverse effect on county revenues of the transfer of the 
offered lands from private to Federal ownership.

 TITLE VII <<NOTE: Indian Tribal Tort Claims and Risk Management Act of 
1998. 25 USC 450f note.>> 

              INDIAN TRIBAL TORT CLAIMS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Indian Tribal Tort Claims and Risk 
Management Act of 1998''.

SEC. 702. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Indian tribes have made significant achievements toward 
        developing a foundation for economic self-sufficiency and self-
        determination, and that economic self-sufficiency and self-
        determination have increased opportunities for the Indian tribes 
        and other entities and persons to interact more frequently in 
        commerce and intergovernmental relationships;
            (2) although Indian tribes have sought and secured liability 
        insurance coverage to meet their needs, many Indian tribes are 
        faced with significant barriers to obtaining liability insurance 
        because of the high cost or unavailability of such coverage in 
        the private market;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-336]]

            (3) as a result, Congress has extended liability coverage 
        provided to Indian tribes to organizations to carry out 
        activities under the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.); and
            (4) there is an emergent need for comprehensive and cost-
        efficient insurance that allows the economy of Indian tribes to 
        continue to grow and provides compensation to persons that may 
        suffer personal injury or loss of property.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to provide for a study to 
facilitate relief for a person who is injured as a result of an official 
action of a tribal government.

SEC. 703. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination 
        and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Tribal organization.--The term ``tribal organization'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 4(l) of the Indian 
        Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
        450b(l)).

SEC. 704. STUDY AND REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Study.--In order to minimize and, if possible, eliminate 
        redundant or duplicative liability insurance coverage and to 
        ensure that the provision of insurance to Indian tribes is cost-
        effective, the Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive survey of 
        the degree, type, and adequacy of liability insurance coverage 
        of Indian tribes at the time of the study.
            (2) Contents of study.--The study conducted under this 
        subsection shall include--
                    (A) an analysis of loss data;
                    (B) risk assessments;
                    (C) projected exposure to liability, and related 
                matters; and
                    (D) the category of risk and coverage involved, 
                which may include--
                          (i) general liability;
                          (ii) automobile liability;
                          (iii) the liability of officials of the Indian 
                      tribe;
                          (iv) law enforcement liability;
                          (v) workers' compensation; and
                          (vi) other types of liability contingencies.
            (3) Assessment of coverage by categories of risk.--For each 
        Indian tribe, for each category of risk identified under 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary, in conducting the study, shall 
        determine whether insurance coverage or coverage under chapter 
        171 of title 28, United States Code, applies to that Indian 
        tribe for that activity.

    (b) Report.--Not later than June 1, 1999, and annually thereafter, 
the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that contains 
legislative recommendations that the Secretary determines to--
            (1) be appropriate to improve the provision of insurance 
        coverage to Indian tribes; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-337]]

            (2) otherwise achieve the purpose of providing relief to 
        persons who are injured as a result of an official action of a 
        tribal government.

SEC. 705. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the 
Interior such sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.
      (f) For programs, projects or activities in the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as follows, to be effective as if it 
had been enacted into law as the regular appropriations Act:

                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Job Training Partnership Act, as 
amended, including the purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other 
facilities, and the purchase of real property for training centers as 
authorized by the Job Training Partnership Act; the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act; the Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional 
Occupations Act; the National Skill Standards Act of 1994; section 
166(j) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998; and the School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act; $5,272,324,000 plus reimbursements, of which 
$3,740,287,000 is available for obligation for the period July 1, 1999 
through June 30, 2000; of which $1,250,965,000 is available for 
obligation for the period April 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000, including 
$250,000,000 for activities authorized by section 127(b)(1) of the 
Workforce Investment Act; of which $152,072,000 is available for the 
period July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2002, including $1,500,000 under 
authority of part B of title III of the Job Training Partnership Act for 
use by The Organizing Committee for The 2001 Special Olympics World 
Winter Games in Alaska to promote employment opportunities for 
individuals with mental disabilities, and $150,572,000 for necessary 
expenses of construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition of Job Corps 
centers; and of which $125,000,000 shall be available from July 1, 1999 
through September 30, 2000, for carrying out activities of the School-
to-Work Opportunities Act: Provided, That funds made available under 
this heading to carry out the Job Training Partnership Act may be used 
for transition to, and implementation of, the provisions of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998: Provided further, That $57,815,000 
shall be for carrying out section 401 of the Job Training Partnership 
Act, $71,517,000 shall be for carrying out section 402 of such Act, 
$7,300,000 shall be for carrying out section 441 of such Act, $9,000,000 
shall be

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-338]]

for all activities conducted by and through the National Occupational 
Information Coordinating Committee under such Act, $955,000,000 shall be 
for carrying out title II, part A of such Act, and $129,965,000 shall be 
for carrying out title II, part C of such Act: Provided further, That 
funding appropriated herein under authority of part B of title III of 
the Job Training Partnership Act includes $5,000,000 for use by The 
Organizing Committee for The 1999 Special Olympics World Summer Games to 
promote employment opportunities for individuals with mental 
disabilities: Provided further,
That the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee is 
authorized, effective upon enactment, to charge fees for publications, 
training and technical assistance developed by the National Occupational 
Information Coordinating Committee: Provided further, That revenues 
received from publications and delivery of technical assistance and 
training, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, shall be credited to the 
National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee program account 
and shall be available to the National Occupational Information 
Coordinating Committee without further appropriations, so long as such 
revenues are used for authorized activities of the National Occupational 
Information Coordinating Committee: Provided further, That no funds from 
any other appropriation shall be used to provide meal services at or for 
Job Corps centers: Provided further, That funds provided for title III 
of the Job Training Partnership Act shall not be subject to the 
limitation contained in subsection (b) of section 315 of such Act; that 
the waiver described in section 315(a)(2) may be granted if a substate 
grantee demonstrates to the Governor that such waiver is appropriate due 
to the availability of low-cost retraining services, is necessary to 
facilitate the provision of needs-related payments to accompany long-
term training, or is necessary to facilitate the provision of 
appropriate basic readjustment services; and that funds provided for 
discretionary grants under part B of such title III may be used to 
provide needs-related payments to participants who, in lieu of meeting 
the enrollment requirements under section 314(e) of such Act, are 
enrolled in training by the end of the sixth week after grant funds have 
been awarded: Provided further, That funds provided to carry out section 
324 of such Act may be used for demonstration projects that provide 
assistance to new entrants in the workforce and incumbent workers: 
Provided further, That service-delivery areas may transfer funding 
provided herein under authority of title II, parts B and C of the Job 
Training Partnership Act between the programs authorized by those titles 
of the Act, if the transfer is approved by the Governor: Provided 
further, That service delivery areas and substate areas may transfer up 
to 20 percent of the funding provided herein under authority of title 
II, part A and title III of the Job Training Partnership Act between the 
programs authorized by those titles of the Act, if such transfer is 
approved by the Governor: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, any proceeds from the sale of Job Corps center 
facilities shall be retained by the Secretary of Labor to carry out the 
Job Corps program: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Labor may waive any of the statutory 
or regulatory requirements of titles I-III of the Job Training 
Partnership Act (except for requirements relating to wage and labor 
standards, worker rights, participation and protection, grievance 
procedures and judicial review, nondiscrimination, allocation of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-339]]

funds to local areas, eligibility, review and approval of plans, the 
establishment and functions of service delivery areas and private 
industry councils, and the basic purposes of the Act), and any of the 
statutory or regulatory requirements of sections 8-10 of the Wagner-
Peyser Act (except for requirements relating to the provision of 
services to unemployment insurance claimants and veterans, and to 
universal access to basic labor exchange services without cost to job 
seekers), only for funds available for expenditure in program year 1999, 
pursuant to a request submitted by a State which identifies the 
statutory or regulatory requirements that are requested to be waived and 
the goals which the State or local service delivery areas intend to 
achieve, describes the actions that the State or local service delivery 
areas have undertaken to remove State or local statutory or regulatory 
barriers, describes the goals of the waiver and the expected 
programmatic outcomes if the request is granted, describes the 
individuals impacted by the waiver, and describes the process used to 
monitor the progress in implementing a
waiver, and for which notice and an opportunity to comment on such 
request has been provided to the organizations identified in section 
105(a)(1) of the Job Training Partnership Act, if and only to the extent 
that the Secretary determines that such requirements impede the ability 
of the State to implement a plan to improve the workforce development 
system and the State has executed a Memorandum of Understanding with the 
Secretary requiring such State to meet agreed upon outcomes and 
implement other appropriate measures to ensure accountability.

    Of the funds made available beginning on October 1, 1998 under this 
heading in Public Law 105-78 for Opportunity Areas of Out-of-School 
                   Youth, $250,000,000 are rescinded.

    To carry out the activities for national grants or contracts with 
public agencies and public or private nonprofit organizations under 
paragraph (1)(A) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act 
of 1965, as amended, or to carry out older worker activities as 
subsequently authorized, $343,356,000.
    To carry out the activities for grants to States under paragraph (3) 
of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as 
amended, or to carry out older worker activities as subsequently 
                        authorized, $96,844,000.

    For payments during the current fiscal year of trade adjustment 
benefit payments and allowances under part I; and for training, 
allowances for job search and relocation, and related State 
administrative expenses under part II, subchapters B and D, chapter 2, 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, $360,700,000, together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15 of 
                            the current year.

    For authorized administrative expenses, $162,097,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,132,076,000 (including not to exceed

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-340]]

$1,228,000 which may be used for amortization payments to States which 
had independent retirement plans in their State employment service 
agencies prior to 1980), which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund including 
the cost of administering section 1201 of the Small Business Job 
Protection Act of 1996, section 7(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, as 
amended, section 461 of the Job Training Partnership Act, the Trade Act 
of 1974, as amended, the Immigration Act of 1990, and the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, as amended, and of which the sums available in the 
allocation for activities authorized by title III of the Social Security 
Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 502-504), and the sums available in the 
allocation for necessary administrative expenses for carrying out 5 
U.S.C. 8501-8523, shall be available for obligation by the States 
through December 31, 1999, except that funds used for automation 
acquisitions shall be available for obligation by the States through 
September 30, 2001; and of which $162,097,000, together with not to 
exceed $746,138,000 of the amount which may be expended from said trust 
fund, shall be available for obligation for the period July 1, 1999 
through June 30, 2000, to fund activities under the Act of June 6, 1933, 
as amended, including the cost of penalty mail authorized under 39 
U.S.C. 3202(a)(1)(E) made available to States in lieu of allotments for 
such purpose, and of which $180,933,000 shall be available only to the 
extent necessary for additional State allocations to administer 
unemployment compensation laws to finance increases in the number of 
unemployment insurance claims filed and claims paid or changes in a 
State law: Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (AWIU) for fiscal year 1999 is projected by the Department 
of Labor to exceed 2,629,000, an additional $28,600,000 shall be 
available for obligation for every 100,000 increase in the AWIU level 
(including
a pro rata amount for any increment less than 100,000) from the 
Employment Security Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust 
Fund: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act which are 
used to establish a national one-stop career center network may be 
obligated in contracts, grants or agreements with non-State entities: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act for activities 
authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended, and title III of the 
Social Security Act, may be used by the States to fund integrated 
Employment Service and Unemployment Insurance automation efforts, 
notwithstanding cost allocation principles prescribed under Office of 
                  Management and Budget Circular A-87.

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, as amended, and 
to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 
9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; and for 
nonrepayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 
section 8509 of title 5, United States Code, and to the ``Federal 
unemployment benefits and allowances'' account, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000, $357,000,000.
    In addition, for making repayable advances to the Black Lung 
Disability Trust Fund in the current fiscal year after September

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-341]]

15, 1999, for costs incurred by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund in 
         the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$94,410,000, including $6,360,000 to support up to 75 full-time 
equivalent staff, the majority of which will be term Federal 
appointments lasting no more than two years, to administer welfare-to-
work grants, together with not to exceed $43,716,000, which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Pension and Welfare Benefits 
Administration, $90,000,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is authorized to make such 
expenditures, including financial assistance authorized by section 104 
of Public Law 96-364, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program through September 30, 1999, for such Corporation: Provided, That 
not to exceed $10,958,000 shall be available for administrative expenses 
of the Corporation: Provided further, That expenses of such Corporation 
in connection with the termination of pension plans, for the 
acquisition, protection or management, and investment of trust assets, 
and for benefits administration services shall be considered as non-
administrative expenses for the purposes hereof, and excluded from the 
above limitation.

                   Employment Standards Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards Administration, 
including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their 
employees for inspection services rendered, $312,076,000, together with 
$1,924,000 which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance 
with sections 39(c), 44(d) and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act: Provided, That $1,000,000 shall be for the 
development of an alternative system for the electronic submission of 
reports as required to be filed under the Labor-Management Reporting and 
Disclosure Act of 1959, as amended, and
for a computer database of the information for each submission by 
whatever means, that is indexed and easily searchable by the public via 
the Internet: Provided further, That the Secretary of Labor is 
authorized to accept, retain, and spend, until expended, in the name of 
the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-342]]

Department of Labor, all sums of money ordered to be paid to the 
Secretary of Labor, in accordance with the terms of the Consent Judgment 
in Civil Action No. 91-0027 of the United States District Court for the 
District of the Northern Mariana Islands (May 21, 1992): Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Labor is authorized to establish and, in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3302, collect and deposit in the Treasury fees 
for processing applications and issuing certificates under sections 
11(d) and 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 
U.S.C. 211(d) and 214) and for processing applications and issuing 
registrations under title I of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural 
             Worker Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior fiscal 
year authorized by title 5, chapter 81 of the United States Code; 
continuation of benefits as provided for under the head ``Civilian War 
Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; the 
Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; sections 
4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. App. 2012); and 
50 percent of the additional compensation and benefits required by 
section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as 
amended, $179,000,000 together with such amounts as may be necessary to 
be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for the payment of 
compensation and other benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 
of the current year: Provided, That amounts appropriated may be used 
under section 8104 of title 5, United States Code, by the Secretary of 
Labor to reimburse an employer, who is not the employer at the time of 
injury, for portions of the salary of a reemployed, disabled 
beneficiary: Provided further, That balances of reimbursements 
unobligated on September 30, 1998, shall remain available until expended 
for the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses: Provided 
further, That in addition there shall be transferred to this 
appropriation from the Postal Service and from any other corporation or 
instrumentality required under section 8147(c) of title 5, United States 
Code, to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost of administration, 
such sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost of administration 
for employees of such fair share entities through September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That of those funds transferred to this account from 
the fair share entities to pay the cost of administration, $20,250,000 
shall be made available to the Secretary as follows: for the operation 
of and enhancement to the automated data processing systems in support 
of Federal Employees' Compensation Act administration, $11,969,000; for 
expenditures relating to the expansion of the periodic roll management 
project, $6,652,000; for the financial management improvement project, 
$1,629,000; and the remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the Secretary may require 
that any person filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 
chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, or 33 U.S.C. 901 et seq., 
provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying information

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-343]]

(including Social Security account number) as such regulations may 
                               prescribe.

    For payments from the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, 
$1,021,000,000, of which $969,725,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2000, for payment of all benefits as authorized by section 9501(d) 
(1), (2), (4), and (7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 
and interest on advances as authorized by section
9501(c)(2) of that Act, and of which $30,191,000 shall be available for 
transfer to Employment Standards Administration, Salaries and Expenses, 
$20,422,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Salaries and 
Expenses, $306,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Office of 
Inspector General, and $356,000 for payment into miscellaneous receipts 
for the expenses of the Department of Treasury, for expenses of 
operation and administration of the Black Lung Benefits program as 
authorized by section 9501(d)(5)(A) of that Act: Provided, That, in 
addition, such amounts as may be necessary may be charged to the 
subsequent year appropriation for the payment of compensation, interest, 
or other benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 of the current 
year.

              Occupational Safety and Health Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $353,000,000, including not to exceed $80,084,000 which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under section 
23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which grants shall be 
no less than 50 percent of the costs of State occupational safety and 
health programs required to be incurred under plans approved by the 
Secretary under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 
1970; and, in addition, notwithstanding <<NOTE: 29 USC 670 note.>> 31 
U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration may 
retain up to $750,000 per fiscal year of training institute course 
tuition fees, otherwise authorized by law to be collected, and may 
utilize such sums for occupational safety and health training and 
education grants: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Secretary of Labor is authorized, during the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1999, to collect and retain fees for services provided to 
Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, 
in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer 
national and international laboratory recognition programs that ensure 
the safety of equipment and products used by workers in the workplace: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
paragraph shall be obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, 
administer, or enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under 
the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 which is applicable to 
any person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain 
a temporary labor camp and employs ten or fewer employees: Provided 
further, That no funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be 
obligated or expended to administer or enforce any standard, rule, 
regulation, or order under the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-344]]

Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 with respect to any employer 
of ten or fewer employees who is included within a category having an 
occupational injury lost workday case rate, at the most precise Standard 
Industrial Classification Code for which such data are published, less 
than the national average rate as such rates are most recently published 
by the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 
accordance with section 24 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 673), except--
            (1) to provide, as authorized by such Act, consultation, 
        technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
        conduct surveys and studies;
            (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response to 
        an employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations found 
        during such inspection, and to assess a penalty for violations 
        which are not corrected within a reasonable abatement period and 
        for any willful violations found;
            (3) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to imminent dangers;
            (4) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to health hazards;
            (5) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to a report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or 
        more employees or which results in hospitalization of two or 
        more employees,
and to take any action pursuant to such investigation authorized by such 
Act; and
            (6) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect 
        to complaints of discrimination against employees for exercising 
        rights under such Act: Provided further, That the foregoing 
        proviso shall not apply to any person who is engaged in a 
        farming operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp 
        and employs ten or fewer employees.

                  Mine Safety and Health Administration

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $211,165,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and, in addition, not to 
exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health and Safety 
Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale of training materials, 
otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to be available for mine 
safety and health education and training activities, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302; <<NOTE: 30 USC 962 note.>> the Secretary is authorized to 
accept lands, buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public 
and private sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with other 
agencies, Federal, State, or private; the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration is authorized to promote health and safety education and 
training in the mining community through cooperative programs with 
States, industry, and safety associations; and any funds available to 
the Department may be used, with the approval of the Secretary, to 
provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival operations in the 
event of a major disaster: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to carry out section 
115 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 or to carry out 
that portion of section 104(g)(1) of such Act relating to the 
enforcement

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-345]]

of any training requirements, with respect to shell dredging, or with 
respect to any sand, gravel, surface stone, surface clay, colloidal 
phosphate, or surface limestone mine: Provided further, That the Mine 
Safety and Health Administration may obligate or expend funds to 
promulgate final training regulations that are designed for the above 
named industries by no later than September 30, 1999.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, including 
advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local agencies and 
their employees for services rendered, $344,724,000, of which 
$11,159,000 shall be for expenses of revising the Consumer Price Index 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2000, together with not 
to exceed $54,146,000, which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

                         Departmental Management

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three sedans, and including up to $6,750,000 for the President's 
Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities, and including 
$500,000 to fund the activities of the Twenty-First Century Workforce 
Commission authorized by section 334 of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998, $190,832,000; together with not to exceed $299,000, which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund: Provided, <<NOTE: 33 USC 921 note.>> That no 
funds made available by this Act may be used by the Solicitor of Labor 
to participate in a review in any United States court of appeals of any 
decision made by the Benefits Review Board under section 21 of the 
Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 921) where 
such participation is precluded by the decision of the United States 
Supreme Court in Director, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs v. 
Newport News Shipbuilding,
115 S. Ct. 1278 (1995), notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary 
contained in Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure: 
Provided further, That no funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Labor to review a decision under the Longshore and 
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) that has been 
appealed and that has been pending before the Benefits Review Board for 
more than 12 months: Provided further, That any such decision pending a 
review by the Benefits Review Board for more than one year shall be 
considered affirmed by the Benefits Review Board on the one-year 
anniversary of the filing of the appeal, and shall be considered the 
final order of the Board for purposes of obtaining a review in the 
United States courts of appeals: Provided further, That these provisions 
shall not be applicable to the review or appeal of any decision issued 
under the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 901 et seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-346]]

    Not to exceed $182,719,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4100-4110A, 4212, 4214 and 4321-4327, 
and Public Law 103-353, and which shall be available for obligation by 
                  the States through December 31, 1999.

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $43,852,000, together with not to exceed $3,648,000, which may 
be expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in this title for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the compensation of an individual, either as 
direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate in excess 
of Executive Level III.
    Sec. 102. Reversion of Unallotted Formula Funds Under Welfare-to-
Work. Section 403(a)(5)(A) of the Social Security Act is amended by 
adding the following clause: <<NOTE: 42 USC 603.>> 
                          ``(ix) Reversion of unallotted formula 
                      funds.--If at the end of any fiscal year any funds 
                      available under this subparagraph have not been 
                      allotted due to a determination by the Secretary 
                      that any State has not met the requirements of 
                      clause (ii), such funds shall be transferred to 
                      the General Fund of the Treasury of the United 
                                          States.''.

    Sec. 103. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified at least fifteen days 
in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 104. Funds shall be available for carrying out title IV-B of 
the Job Training Partnership Act, notwithstanding section 427(c) of that 
Act, if a Job Corps center fails to meet national performance standards 
established by the Secretary.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-347]]

  TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations 
Act, 1999.>> II--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

    For carrying out titles II, III, VII, VIII, X, XII, XIX, and XXVI of 
the Public Health Service Act, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine 
Health and Safety Act, title V and section 1820 of the Social Security 
Act, the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, as amended, and 
the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, as amended, $4,108,040,000, 
of which $150,000 shall remain available until expended for interest 
subsidies on loan guarantees made prior to fiscal year 1981 under part B 
of title VII of the Public Health Service Act, and of which $65,345,000 
shall be available for the construction and renovation of health care 
and other facilities, and of which $25,000,000 from general revenues, 
notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social Security Act, shall be 
available for carrying out the Medicare rural hospital flexibility 
grants program under section 1820 of such Act: Provided, That the 
Division of Federal Occupational Health may utilize personal services 
contracting to employ professional management/administrative and 
occupational health professionals: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $250,000 shall be available until 
expended for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long Hansen's 
Disease Center: Provided further, That in addition to fees authorized by 
section 427(b) of the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, fees 
shall be collected for the full disclosure of information under the Act 
sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the National 
Practitioner Data Bank, and shall remain available until expended to 
carry out that Act: Provided further, That no more than $5,000,000 is 
available for carrying out the provisions of Public Law 104-73: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$215,000,000 shall be for the program under title X of the Public Health 
Service Act to provide for voluntary family planning projects: Provided 
further, That amounts provided to said projects under such title shall 
not be expended for abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be 
nondirective, and that such amounts shall not be expended for any 
activity (including the publication or distribution of literature) that 
in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any 
legislative proposal or candidate for public office: Provided further, 
That $461,000,000 shall be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs 
authorized by section 2616 of the Public Health Service Act: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under this heading may be used to continue operating the 
Council on Graduate Medical Education established by section 301 of 
Public Law 102-408: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
502(a)(1) of the Social Security Act, not to exceed $107,434,000 is 
available for carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, $2,000,000 shall be for support of 
the Center for Sustainable Health Outreach at the University of Southern 
Mississippi in affiliation with Harrison Institute at Georgetown 
University for the establishment of demonstration programs that create 
model health access programs, health-related jobs and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-348]]

sustainability of community-based providers of health services in rural 
and urban communities; and $1,250,000 shall be for the American 
        Federation for Negro Affairs Education and Research Fund.

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1602 of the 
Public Health Service Act, $1,000,000, together with any amounts 
received by the Secretary in connection with loans and loan guarantees 
under title VI of the Public Health Service Act, to be available without 
fiscal
year limitation for the payment of interest subsidies. During the fiscal 
 year, no commitments for direct loans or loan guarantees shall be made.

    Such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
program, as authorized by Title VII of the Public Health Service Act, as 
amended. For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, including section 709 of the Public Health Service Act, 
                               $3,688,000.

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund, such sums as may be necessary for claims associated with vaccine-
related injury or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be 
available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.

                       vaccine injury compensation

      For payment of claims resolved by the United States Court of 
Federal Claims related to the administration of vaccines before October 
1, 1988, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, XIX and XXVI of the 
Public Health Service Act, sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, 
and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, sections 20, 
21 and 22 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, title IV of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act and section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980; including insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries; and hire, maintenance, and operation of 
aircraft, $2,558,520,000, of which $17,800,000 shall remain available 
until expended for equipment and construction and renovation of 
facilities, and in addition, such sums as may be derived from authorized 
user fees, which shall be credited to this account: Provided, That in 
addition to amounts provided herein, up to $67,793,000 shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-349]]

 be available from amounts available under section 241 of the Public 
Health Service Act, to carry out the National Center for Health 
Statistics surveys: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for injury prevention and control at the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention may be used to advocate or promote gun control: 
Provided further, That the Director may redirect the total amount made 
available under authority of Public Law 101-502, section 3, dated 
November 3, 1990, to activities the Director may so designate: Provided 
further, That the Congress is to be notified promptly of any such 
transfer: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provison of 
law, a single contract or related contracts for the development and 
construction of the infectious disease laboratory through the General 
Services Administration may be employed which collectively include the 
full scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and 
contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 
CFR 52.232-18: Provided further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 238k note.>> That 
hereinafter obligations may be incurred related to agreement with 
private entities without receipt of advance payment.

    In addition, $51,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, for carrying out sections 40151 and 40261 of 
Public Law 103-322.

                      National Institutes of Health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
           Service Act with respect to cancer, $2,927,187,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, 
              and blood and blood products, $1,793,697,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
        Service Act with respect to dental disease, $234,338,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, 
                              $994,218,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
                              $903,278,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
$1,570,102,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-350]]

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
  Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, $1,197,825,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to child health and human development, 
                              $750,982,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
                              $395,857,000.

    For carrying out sections 301 and 311 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health sciences, 
                              $375,743,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
            Service Act with respect to aging, $596,521,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin 
                         diseases, $308,164,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
                              $229,887,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
       Service Act with respect to nursing research, $69,834,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
 Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $259,747,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
          Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $603,274,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to mental health, $861,208,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-351]]

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
    Service Act with respect to human genome research, $264,892,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to research resources and general research 
support grants, $554,819,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall 
be used to pay recipients of the general research support grants program 
any amount for indirect expenses in connection with such grants: 
Provided further, That $30,000,000 shall be for extramural facilities 
                          construction grants.

    For carrying out the activities at the John E. Fogarty International 
                          Center, $35,426,000.

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to health information communications, 
$181,309,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
improvement of information systems: Provided, That in fiscal year 1999, 
the Library may enter into personal services contracts for the provision 
of services in facilities owned, operated, or constructed under the 
           jurisdiction of the National Institutes of Health.

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the Director, 
National Institutes of Health, $306,559,000, of which $43,493,000 shall 
be for the Office of AIDS Research: Provided, That funding shall be 
available for the purchase of not to exceed twenty-nine passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, That the Director may 
direct up to 1 percent of the total amount made available in this or any 
other Act to all National Institutes of Health appropriations to 
activities the Director may so designate: Provided further, That no such 
appropriation shall be decreased by more than 1 percent by any such 
transfers and that the Congress is promptly notified of the transfer: 
Provided further, That NIH is authorized to collect third party payments 
for the cost of clinical services that are incurred in National 
Institutes of Health research facilities and that such payments shall be 
credited to the National Institutes of Health Management Fund: Provided 
further, That all funds credited to the NIH Management Fund shall remain 
available for one fiscal year after the fiscal year in which they are 
deposited: Provided further, That up to $500,000 shall be available to 
carry out section 499 of the Public Health Service Act: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding section 499(k)(10) of the Public Health 
Service Act, funds from the National Foundation for Biomedical Research 
may be transferred to the National Institutes of Health: Provided 
further, That $50,000,000 shall be available to carry out section 404E 
of the Public Health Service Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-352]]

    For the study of, construction of, and acquisition of equipment for, 
facilities of or used by the National Institutes of Health, including 
the acquisition of real property, $237,519,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $90,000,000 of the fiscal year 1999 funds shall 
be for the clinical research center and $40,000,000 shall become 
available on October 1, 1999 and $9,143,000 shall be for the Vaccine 
Facility: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
single contract or related contracts for the development and 
construction of the clinical research center may be employed which 
collectively include the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
That the solicitation and contract shall contain the clause 
``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232-18.

        Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

    For carrying out titles V and XIX of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to substance abuse and mental health services, the 
Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986, and 
section 301 of the Public Health Service Act with respect to program 
management, $2,488,005,000: Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$300,000 shall be for the Philadelphia City-wide Improvement and 
                            Planning Agency.

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), and for payments 
pursuant to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), such amounts as may be required during the current fiscal year.

               Agency for Health Care Policy and Research

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health Service Act, 
and part A of title XI of the Social Security Act, $100,408,000; in 
addition, amounts received from Freedom of Information Act fees, 
reimbursable and interagency agreements, and the sale of data tapes 
shall be credited to this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the amount made available pursuant to section 
926(b) of the Public Health Service Act shall not exceed $70,647,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-353]]

                  Health Care Financing Administration

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX of 
the Social Security Act, $74,593,733,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 1999, payments to States under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 1999 for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States under title XIX of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2000, $28,733,605,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with respect to 
a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such quarter, if 
submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that or any 
                           subsequent quarter.

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
217(g) and 1844 of the Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) 
of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of Public Law 
97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 
           201(g) of the Social Security Act, $62,953,000,000.

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement 
Amendments of 1988, not to exceed $1,946,500,000 to be transferred from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social 
Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance with 
section 353 of the Public Health Service Act and such sums as may be 
collected from authorized user fees and the sale of data, which shall 
remain available until expended, and together with administrative fees 
collected relative to Medicare overpayment recovery activities, which 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That all funds derived 
in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations
established under title XIII of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of this 
appropriation: Provided further, That $1,000,000 shall be for carrying 
out section 4021 of Public Law 105-33: Provided further, That 
$45,000,000 appropriated under this heading for the transition to a 
single Part A and Part B processing system and for Year 2000 century 
date change conversion requirements of external contractor systems shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of 
the amount available for research, demonstration, and evaluation 
activities shall be available to continue carrying out demonstration 
projects on Medicaid coverage of community-based attendant care services 
for people with disabilities which ensures maximum control by the 
consumer to select and manage their attendant care services:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-354]]

Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
obligated to increase Medicare provider audits and implement the 
Department's corrective action plan to the Chief Financial Officer's 
audit of the Health Care Financing Administration's oversight of 
Medicare: Provided further, That the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services is directed to collect, in aggregate, $95,000,000 in fees in 
fiscal year 1999 from Medicare+Choice organizations pursuant to section 
1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act and from eligible organizations 
with risk-sharing contracts under section 1876 of that Act pursuant to 
                   section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1308 of the 
Public Health Service Act, any amounts received by the Secretary in 
connection with loans and loan guarantees under title XIII of the Public 
Health Service Act, to be available without fiscal year limitation for 
the payment of outstanding obligations. During fiscal year 1999, no 
commitments for direct loans or loan guarantees shall be made.

                Administration for Children and Families

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the 
Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), to remain available until 
expended, $1,989,000,000; and for such purposes for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2000, $750,000,000.
    For making payments to each State for carrying out the program of 
Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title IV-A of the Social 
Security Act before the effective date of the program of Temporary 
Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) with respect to such State, such 
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That the sum of the amounts 
available to a State with respect to expenditures under such title IV-A 
in fiscal year 1997 under this appropriation and under such title IV-A 
as amended by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 shall not exceed the limitations under 
section 116(b) of such Act.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 
U.S.C. ch. 9), for the last three months of the current year for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
                            may be necessary.

    For making payments under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, $1,100,000,000, to be available for 
obligation in the period October 1, 1999 through September 30, 2000.
    For making payments under title XXVI of such Act, $300,000,000: 
Provided, That these funds are hereby designated by Congress to be 
emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Deficit Emergency Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That 
these funds shall be made

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-355]]

available only after
submission to Congress of a formal budget request by the President that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
                              Control Act.

    For making payments for refugee and entrant assistance activities 
authorized by title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 
96-422), $415,000,000: Provided, That funds appropriated pursuant to 
section 414(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act under Public Law 
104-208 for fiscal year 1997 shall be available for the costs of 
assistance provided and other activities conducted in such year and in 
                       fiscal years 1998 and 1999.

    For carrying out sections 658A through 658R of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981 (The Child Care and Development Block Grant 
Act of 1990), to become available on October 1, 1999 and remain 
available through September 30, 2000, $1,182,672,000: Provided, That 
$19,120,000 shall be available for child care resource and referral and 
school-aged child care activities: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided for fiscal year 1999 under Public Law 105-78, $50,000,000 shall 
be reserved by the States for activities authorized under section 658G 
of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (the Child Care and 
Development Block Grant Act of 1990), such funds to be in addition to 
the amounts required to be reserved by States under such section 658G: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided for fiscal year 2000 
$222,672,000 shall be reserved by the States for activities authorized 
under section 658G of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (The 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990), such funds to be in 
addition to the amounts required to be reserved by the States under such 
section 658G: Provided further, That of the funds provided for fiscal 
year 2000, $10,000,000 shall be for use by the Secretary for child care 
research, demonstration and evaluation activities (directly or by grants 
                             or contracts).

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,909,000,000: Provided, That (1) notwithstanding section 
2003(c) of such Act, as amended, the amount specified for allocation 
under such section for fiscal year 1999 shall be $1,909,000,000 and (2) 
notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such Act, the 
applicable percent specified under such subparagraph for a State to 
carry out State programs pursuant to title XX of such Act for fiscal 
                years 1999 and 2000 shall be 10 percent.

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-356]]

and Bill of Rights Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention 
and Treatment Act (including section 105(a)(2) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act), the Native American Programs Act of 1974, 
title II of Public Law 95-266 (adoption opportunities), the Adoption and 
Safe Families Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-89), the Abandoned Infants 
Assistance Act of 1988, part B(1) of title IV and sections 413, 429A, 
1110, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; for making payments under the 
Community Services Block Grant Act; and for necessary administrative 
expenses to carry out said Acts and titles I, IV, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and 
XX of the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 
9), the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, title IV of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, section 501 of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, sections 40155, 40211 and 40241 of Public Law 
103-322 and section 126 and titles IV and V of Public Law 100-485, 
$6,032,087,000, of which $10,000,000 shall be used to establish 
Individual Development Accounts, for the purpose of encouraging low-
income families and individuals to acquire productive assets, contingent 
upon enactment of authorizing legislation, and of which $20,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2000, shall be for grants to States 
for adoption incentive payments, as authorized by section 473A of title 
IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670-679); of which $563,565,000 
shall be for making payments under the Community Services Block Grant 
Act; and of which $4,660,000,000 shall be for making payments under the 
Head Start Act: Provided, That, notwithstanding section 640(a)(6), of 
the funds made available for the Head Start Act, $337,500,000 shall be 
set aside for the Head Start Program for Families with Infants and 
Toddlers (Early Head Start): Provided further, That to the extent 
Community Services Block Grant funds are distributed as grant funds by a 
State to an eligible entity as provided under the Act, and have not been 
expended by such entity, they shall remain with such entity for 
carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such entity 
consistent with program purposes.
    In addition, $105,000,000, to be derived from the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund for carrying out sections 40155, 40211 and 40241 of 
Public Law 103-322.
    Funds appropriated for fiscal year 1999 under section 429A(e), part 
B of title IV of the Social Security Act shall be reduced by $6,000,000.
    Funds appropriated for fiscal year 1999 under section 413(h)(1) of 
        the Social Security Act shall be reduced by $15,000,000.

    For carrying out section 430 of the Social Security Act, 
                              $275,000,000.

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $3,764,000,000.

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal 
year 2000, $1,355,000,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-357]]

                         Administration on Aging

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended, and sections 339A, 398, and 399 of 
the Public Health Service Act, $882,020,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 308(b)(1) of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as 
amended, the amounts available to each State for administration of the 
State plan under title III of such Act shall be reduced not more than 5 
percent below the amount that was available to such State for such 
purpose for fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That in considering 
grant applications for nutrition services for elder Indian recipients, 
the Assistant Secretary shall provide maximum flexibility to applicants 
who seek to take into account subsistence, local customs, and other 
characteristics that are appropriate to the unique cultural, regional, 
and geographic needs of the American Indian, Alaska and Hawaiian Native 
communities to be served.

                         Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six sedans, and for carrying 
out titles III, XVII, and XX of the Public Health Service Act, and the 
United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act, $180,051,000, 
together with $5,851,000, to be transferred and expended as authorized 
by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from the Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund: 
Provided, That of the funds made available under this heading for 
carrying out title XVII of the Public Health Service Act, $1,000,000 
shall be available until expended for extramural construction: Provided 
further, That $890,000 shall be for a contract with the National Academy 
of Sciences to conduct a study of all the available scientific 
literature examining the cause-and-effect relationship between 
repetitive tasks in the workplace and musculoskeletal disorders: 
Provided further, That said contract shall be awarded not later than 
                            January 1, 1999.

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
                          amended, $29,000,000.

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, $17,345,000, 
together with not to exceed $3,314,000, to be transferred and expended 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from the 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Supplemental Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-358]]

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, research 
   studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $14,000,000.

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, disease and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $216,922,000: Provided, That the entire amount is hereby 
designated by Congress to be emergency requirements pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$216,922,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress:
Provided further, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
$51,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
pharmaceutical and vaccine stockpiling activities at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention; and $3,000,000 shall be for the 
renovation and modernization of the Noble Army Hospital facility at Fort 
McClellan, Alabama; and $322,000 shall be in payment to the health 
department of Calhoun County, Michigan: Provided further, That no funds 
shall be obligated until the Department of Health and Human Services 
submits an operating plan to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $37,000 for official reception and representation expenses 
when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202. The Secretary shall make available through assignment not 
more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child 
survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the United Nations 
International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 203. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be used 
to implement section 399L(b) of the Public Health Service Act or section 
1503 of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993, 
Public Law 103-43.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an 
individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in 
excess of Executive Level III.
    Sec. 205. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be expended 
pursuant to section 241 of the Public Health Service Act, except for 
funds specifically provided for in this Act, or for other taps and 
assessments made by any office located in the Department of Health and 
Human Services, prior to the Secretary's preparation and submission of a 
report to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House 
detailing the planned uses of such funds.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-359]]

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 3015 note. (transfer of funds)>> Sec. 206. None of 
the funds appropriated in this Act or subsequent Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Acts, may be obligated or expended for the Federal 
Council on Aging under the Older Americans Act or the Advisory Board on 
Child Abuse and Neglect under the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
                                  Act.

    Sec. 207. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Health and Human Services in this Act may be transferred 
between appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by 
more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified at 
least fifteen days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 208. The Director of the National Institutes of Health, jointly 
with the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer up to 3 
percent among institutes, centers, and divisions from the total amounts 
identified by these two Directors as funding for research pertaining to 
the human immunodeficiency virus: Provided, That the Congress is 
promptly notified of the transfer.
    Sec. 209. Of the amounts made available in this Act for the National 
Institutes of Health, the amount for research related to the human 
immunodeficiency virus, as jointly determined by the Director of NIH and 
the Director of the Office of AIDS Research, shall be made available to 
the ``Office of AIDS Research'' account. The
Director of the Office of AIDS Research shall transfer from such account 
amounts necessary to carry out section 2353(d)(3) of the Public Health 
Service Act.

    Sec. 210. <<NOTE: 5 USC 7905 note.>>  Funds appropriated in this Act 
or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts, for the National 
Institutes of Health may be used to provide transit subsidies in amounts 
consistent with the transportation subsidy programs authorized under 
section 629 of Public Law 101-509 to non-FTE bearing positions including 
trainees, visiting fellows and volunteers.

    Sec. 211. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the Public Health Service Act 
unless the applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it 
encourages family participation in the decision of minors to seek family 
planning services and that it provides counseling to minors on how to 
resist attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual activities.
    Sec. 212. Subsection (b)(1)(H) of section 401 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 (b)(1)(H)) is amended by striking ``National 
Institute of Dental Research'' and inserting ``National Institute of 
Dental and Craniofacial Research''.
    Sec. 213. (a) The final rule entitled ``Organ Procurement and 
Transplantation Network'', promulgated by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services on April 2, 1998 (63 FR 16295 et seq.) (relating to part 
121 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations), shall not become 
effective before the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b)(1) The Institute of Medicine under contract with and subject to 
review by the Comptroller General, in consultation with the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-360]]

Secretary and with the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (in 
this section referred to as the ``OPTN''), shall conduct a review of the 
current polices of the OPTN and the final rule specified in subsection 
(a) in order to determine the following:
            (A) The potential impact on access to transplantation 
        services for low-income populations and for racial and ethnic 
        minority groups. With respect to State policies in carrying out 
        the program under title XIX of the Social Security Act, the 
        determination made under this subparagraph shall include 
        determining the impact of such policies regarding payment for 
        services for patients that are provided to the patients outside 
        of the States in which the patients reside.
            (B) With respect to organ procurement organizations 
        (qualified under section 371 of the Public Health Service Act):
                    (i) The potential impact on the ability of the 
                organizations to facilitate an appropriate rate of organ 
                donation within the service areas of the organizations.
                    (ii) The reasons underlying the variations in 
                performance among such organizations.
                    (iii) The potential impact of requiring sharing of 
                organs based on medical criteria instead of geography on 
                the ability of the organizations to facilitate an 
                appropriate rate of organ donation within the service 
                areas of the organizations.
            (C) The potential impact on waiting times for organ 
        transplants, including determinations specific to the various 
        geographic regions of the United States, and if practicable, 
        waiting times for each transplant center by organ and medical 
        status category. The determination made under this subparagraph 
        shall include determining the impact of recent changes made by 
        the OPTN in patient listing criteria and in measures of medical 
        status.
            (D) The potential impact on patient survival rates and organ 
        failure rates which lead to retransplantation, including any 
        variance by income status, ethnicity, gender, race, or blood 
        type.
            (E) The potential impact on the costs of organ 
        transplantation services.
            (F) The potential impact on the liability, under State laws 
        and procedures regarding peer review, of members of the OPTN.
            (G) The potential impact on the confidential status of 
        information that relates to the transplantation of organs.
            (H) Recommendations, if any, to change existing policies and 
        the final rule.

    (2)(A) Not later than May 1, 1999, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall submit to the congressional committees specified in 
subparagraph (B) a report describing the results of the review conducted 
under paragraph (1).
    (B) The congressional committees referred to in subparagraph (A) are 
the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House, the Committee on Labor and Human 
Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate.
    (c)(1) Beginning promptly after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary may conduct a series of discussions with the OPTN in 
order to resolve issues raised by the final rule referred to in 
subsection (a).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-361]]

    (2) The Secretary and the OPTN may utilize the services of a 
mediator in conducting the discussions under paragraph (1). An 
individual may not be selected to serve as the mediator unless the 
Secretary and the OPTN both approve the selection of the individual to 
so serve, and the individual agrees that, not later than June 30, 1999, 
the individual will submit to the congressional committees specified in 
subsection (b)(2)(B) a report describing the extent of progress that has 
been made through the discussions under paragraph (1).
    (d)(1) Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the OPTN 
shall provide to the Secretary, the Institutes of Medicine, and the 
Comptroller General, upon request, any data necessary to assess the 
effectiveness of the Nation's organ donation, procurement and organ 
allocation systems, or to assess the quality of care provided to all 
transplant patients, and analysis of such data in a scientifically and 
clinically valid manner. If necessary, the OPTN may provide additional 
data as they deem appropriate.
    (2) The OPTN shall make available to the public timely and accurate 
program-specific information on the performance of transplant programs. 
These data shall be updated as frequently as possible, and the OPTN 
shall work to shorten the time period for data collection and analysis 
in producing its center-specific outcomes report, including severity 
adjusted long term survival rates. Such data shall also include such 
other cost or performance information including but not limited to 
transplant program-specific information on waiting time within medical 
status, organ waitings, and refusal of organ offers.
    (e) Data provided under subsection (d) shall be specific (if 
possible) to individual transplant centers and must be determined in a 
scientifically and clinically valid manner.
    (f) Any disclosure of patient specific medical information under 
subsection (d) shall be subject to the restrictions contained in the 
Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, and State laws.
    (g) Of the amount appropriated in this title for ``Office of the 
Secretary-general departmental management'', $500,000 shall, not later 
than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, be transferred 
to the Comptroller General for purposes of carrying out the studies 
required and specified in this section.

    (h) For purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``Comptroller General'' means the Comptroller 
        General of the United States.
            (2) The term ``Organ Procurement and Transplantation 
        Network'' means the network operated under section 372 of the 
        Public Health Service Act.
            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services.

    Sec. 214. (a) Section 2003(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397b(c)) is amended by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(8) $2,299,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998;''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 1397b note.>> The amendment made 
by this section takes effect immediately after the amendments made by 
section 8401 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century take 
effect.

    Sec. 215. The Consolidated Laboratory Building (Building 50) at the 
National Institutes of Health is hereby named the Louis Stokes 
Laboratories.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-362]]

    Sec. 216. None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare+Choice program if the Secretary denies participation in such 
program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider Sponsored 
Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that it will not 
provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals for 
abortions: Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees): Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare+Choice organization 
described in this section shall be responsible for informing enrollees 
where to obtain information about all Medicare covered services.
    Sec. 217. The Vaccine Research Facility (Building 40) at the 
National Institutes of Health is hereby named the Dale and Betty Bumpers 
Vaccine Research Facility.

    Sec. 218. (a) Mental Health.--Section 1918(b) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-7(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to fiscal year 1999, the 
        amount of the allotment of a State under section 1911 shall not 
        be less than the amount the State received under section 1911 
        for fiscal year 1998.

    (b) Substance Abuse.--Section 1933(b) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-33(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Allotments for States.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to fiscal year 1999, the 
        amount of the allotment of a State under section 1921 shall not 
        be less than the amount the State received under section 1921 
        for fiscal year 1998 increased by 30.65 percent of the 
        percentage by which the amount allotted to the States for fiscal 
        year 1999 exceeds the amount allotted to the States for fiscal 
        year 1998.
            ``(2) Limitation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), a State shall not receive an allotment 
                under section 1921 for fiscal year 1999 in an amount 
                that is less than an amount equal to 0.375 percent of 
                the amount appropriated under section 1935(a) for such 
                fiscal year.
                    ``(B) Exception.--In applying subparagraph (A), the 
                Secretary shall ensure that no State receives an 
                increase in its allotment under section 1921 for fiscal 
                year 1999 (as compared to the amount allotted to the 
                State in the fiscal year 1998) that is in excess of an 
                amount equal to 300 percent of the percentage by which 
                the amount appropriated under section 1935(a) for fiscal 
                year 1999 exceeds the amount appropriated for the prior 
                fiscal year.
            ``(3) Only for the purposes of calculating minimum 
        allotments under this subsection, any reference to the amount 
        appropriated under section 1935(a) for fiscal year 1998, 
        allotments to States under section 21 and any references to 
        amounts received by States in fiscal year 1998 shall include 
        amounts appropriated or received under the amendments made by

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-363]]

        section 105 of the Contract with America Advancement Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-121).''.

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 300x-7 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and 
        (b) shall become effective as if enacted on October 1, 1998 and 
        shall only apply during fiscal year 1999.
            (2) Application.--Upon the expiration of the fiscal year 
        described in paragraph (1), the provisions of sections 1918(b) 
        and 1933(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-
        7(b) and 300x-33(b)), as in effect on September 30, 1998, shall 
        be applied as if the amendments made by this section had not 
        been enacted.
      Sec. 219. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the Public Health Service Act shall be 
exempt from any State law requiring notification or the reporting of 
child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 1999''.

  <<NOTE: Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1999. education 
               reform>> TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

    For carrying out activities authorized by titles III and IV of the 
Goals 2000: Educate America Act, the School-to-Work Opportunities Act, 
and sections 3122, 3132, 3136, and 3141 and parts B, C, and D of title 
III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 
$1,314,100,000, of which $491,000,000 for the Goals 2000: Educate 
America Act and $125,000,000 for the School-to-Work Opportunities Act 
shall become available on July 1, 1999 and remain available through 
September 30, 2000, and of which $87,000,000 shall be for section 3122: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be obligated or expended to carry out section 304(a)(2)(A) of the Goals 
2000: Educate America Act, except that no more than $1,500,000 may be 
used to carry out activities under section 314(a)(2) of that Act: 
Provided further, That section 315(a)(2) of the Goals 2000 Act shall not 
apply: Provided further, That up to one-half of 1 percent of the amount 
available under section 3132 shall be set aside for the outlying areas, 
to be distributed on the basis of their relative need as determined by 
the Secretary in accordance with the purposes of the program: Provided 
further, That if any State educational agency does not apply for a grant 
under section 3132, that State's allotment under section 3131 shall be 
reserved by the Secretary for grants to local educational agencies in 
that State that apply directly to the Secretary according to the terms 
and conditions published by the Secretary in the Federal Register: 
Provided further, That $22,000,000 of the funds made available under 
section 3136 shall be for a competition consistent with the subjects 
outlined in the House and Senate reports and the statement of the 
managers, and that such competition should be administered in a manner 
consistent with the authorizing legislation and current departmental 
practices and policies: Provided further, That $9,850,000 of the funds 
made available for star schools shall be for a competition consistent 
with the language outlined in the House and Senate reports and the 
statement of the managers, and that such competition should be 
administered in a manner

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-364]]

consistent with current departmental practices and policies: Provided 
further, That $8,000,000 shall be awarded to continue and expand the 
Iowa Communications Network statewide fiber optic demonstration project, 
and $800,000 shall be awarded to the School of Agriculture and Land 
Resources Management at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks to enhance 
distance delivery of natural resources management courses; $350,000 
shall be for multi-media classrooms for the rural education technology 
center at the Western Montana College in Dillon, Montana: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available for section 3136, $2,500,000 
shall be to establish the RUNet 2000 project at Rutgers, The State 
University of
New Jersey; $500,000 shall be for state-of-the-art information 
technology systems at Mansfield University, Mansfield, Pennsylvania; 
$1,000,000 shall be for professional development for technology training 
at the Krell Institute, Ames, Iowa; $850,000 shall be for Internet-based 
curriculum at the State of Alaska, Department of Education; $2,000,000 
shall be for ``Magnet E-School'' technology training and curriculum 
initiative at the Hawaii Department of Education; $600,000 shall be for 
technology in the classroom pilot program for the Green Bay Public 
School System, Green Bay, Wisconsin; $250,000 shall be for the 
``Passport to Chicago Community Network'' technology training project; 
$1,200,000 for LEARN North Carolina and the University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill; and $1,500,000 for the Iowa Department of Education for 
     community college grants to low-income schools for technology.

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965, and section 418A of the Higher Education Act, 
$8,370,520,000, of which $2,198,134,000 shall become available on July 
1, 1999, and shall remain available through September 30, 2000, and of 
which $6,148,386,000 shall become available on October 1, 1999 and shall 
remain available through September 30, 2000, for academic year 1999-
2000: Provided, That $6,574,000,000 shall be available for basic grants 
under section 1124: Provided further, That up to $3,500,000 of these 
funds shall be available to the Secretary on October 1, 1998, to obtain 
updated local-educational-agency-level census poverty data from the 
Bureau of the Census: Provided further, That $1,102,020,000 shall be 
available for concentration grants under section 1124A, $7,500,000 shall 
be available for evaluations under section 1501 and not more than 
$8,500,000 shall be reserved for section 1308, of which not more than 
$3,000,000 shall be reserved for section 1308(d): Provided further, That 
grant awards under section 1124 and 1124A of title I of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act shall be made to each State or local 
educational agency at no less than 100 percent of the amount such State 
or local educational agency received under this authority for fiscal 
year 1998: Provided further, That $120,000,000 shall be available under 
section 1002(g)(2) to demonstrate effective approaches to comprehensive 
school reform to be allocated and expended in accordance with the 
instructions relating to this activity in the statement of the managers 
on the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-78 and in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying this 
Act: Provided further, That in carrying out this initiative, the 
Secretary and the States shall support only approaches that show the 
most promise of enabling children served by title I to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-365]]

meet challenging State content standards and challenging State student 
performance standards based on reliable research and effective 
practices, and include an emphasis on basic academics and parental 
involvement: Provided further, That no funds appropriated under section 
             1002(g)(2) shall be available for section 1503.

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $864,000,000, of which $704,000,000 
shall be for basic support payments under section 8003(b), $50,000,000 
shall be for payments for children with disabilities under section 
8003(d), $70,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
payments under section 8003(f), $7,000,000 shall be for construction 
under section 8007, and $28,000,000 shall be for Federal property 
payments under section 8002 and $5,000,000 to remain available until 
expended shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008: 
Provided, That Section 8002(f) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 <<NOTE: 20 USC 7702.>>  is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after the subsection heading; and
            (2) by adding a new paragraph (2) at the end to read as 
        follows:
            ``(2) For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1999, 
        the Secretary shall treat the Webster School District, Day 
        County, South Dakota as meeting the eligibility requirements of 
        subsection (a)(1)(C) of this section.'':

Provided further, That Section 8002 of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 is amended by adding at the end thereof a new 
subsection (k) to read as follows:
    ``(k) Special Rule.--For purposes of payments under this section for 
each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1998--
            ``(1) the Secretary shall, for the Stanley County, South 
        Dakota local educational agency, calculate payments as if 
        subsection (e) had been in effect for fiscal year 1994; and
            ``(2) the Secretary shall treat the Delaware Valley, 
        Pennsylvania local educational agency as if it had filed a 
        timely application under section 2 of Public Law 81-874 for 
        fiscal year 1994.'':

Provided further,  That (a) from the funds appropriated for payments to 
local educational agencies under section 8003(f) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) for fiscal year 1999, the 
Secretary of Education shall distribute supplemental payments for 
certain local educational agencies, as follows:
            (1) First, from the amount of $68,000,000, the Secretary 
        shall make supplemental payments to the following agencies under 
        section 8003(b) of the ESEA:
                    (A) Local educational agencies that received 
                assistance under section 8003(f) for fiscal year 1998.
                    (B) Local educational agencies with Impact Aid 
                applicant numbers 20-0019, 51-0504, 51-2801, 51-1903, 
                51-0010, 51-4203, 51-2101, 51-0811, and 51-0904.
                    (C) Any eligible local educational agency with at 
                least 25,000 children in average daily attendance, at 
                least 55 percent federally connected children described 
                in section 8003(a)(1) in average daily attendance, and 
                at least 6,500 children described in sections 
                8003(a)(1)(A) and (B) in average daily attendance.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-366]]

            (2) From the remaining $2,000,000 and any amounts available 
        after making payments under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        then make supplemental payments to local educational agencies 
        that are not described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, but 
        that meet the requirements of paragraphs (2) and (4) of section 
        8003(f) of the ESEA for fiscal year 1999, except that such 
        agencies may count for purposes of eligibility for these 
        supplemental payments, all students described in section 
        8003(a)(1).
            (3) After making payments under section 8003(f) to all 
        eligible applicants for fiscal years before fiscal year 1999, 
        the Secretary shall use the combined amount of any funds 
        remaining available under that subsection, and any amounts that 
        may remain for fiscal year 1999 after making payments under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, to make the following 
        payments:
                    (A) First, an amount not to exceed $3,000,000 to 
                Impact Aid applicant number 20-0019.
                    (B) Second, from any remaining funds, an amount not 
                to exceed $3,000,000 to Impact Aid applicant number 53-
                0061.
                    (C) Third, from any remaining funds, increased basic 
                support payments under section 8003(b) for all eligible 
                applicants.

    (b) In calculating the amounts of supplemental payments for agencies 
described in subparagraphs (1)(A) and (B) and paragraph (2) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall use the formula contained in section 
8003(b)(1)(C) of the ESEA, except that--
            (1) eligible local educational agencies may count all 
        children described in section 8003(a)(1) in computing the amount 
        of those payments;
            (2) maximum payments for any of those agencies that use 
        local contribution rates identified in section 8003(b)(1)(C)(i) 
        or (ii) shall be computed by using four-fifths instead of one-
        half of those rates;
            (3) the learning opportunity threshold percentage of all 
        such agencies under section 8003(b)(2)(B) shall be deemed to be 
        100;
            (4) for an eligible local educational agency with 35 percent 
        or more of its children in average daily attendance described in 
        either subparagraph (D) or (E) of section 8003(a)(1), the 
        weighted student unit figure from its regular basic support 
        payment shall be recomputed by using a factor of 0.55 for such 
        children;
            (5) for an eligible local educational agency with fewer than 
        100 children in average daily attendance, the weighted student 
        unit figure from its regular basic support payment shall be 
        recomputed by multiplying the total number of children described 
        in section 8003(a)(1) by a factor of 1.5; and
            (6) for an eligible local educational agency whose total 
        number of children in average daily attendance is at least 100, 
        but fewer than 750, the weighted student unit figure from its 
        regular basic support payment shall be recomputed by multiplying 
        the total number of children described in section 8003(a)(1) by 
        a factor of 1.25.

    (c) For a local educational agency described in subsection (a)(1)(C) 
above, the Secretary shall use the formula contained in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-367]]

section 8003(b)(1)(C) of the ESEA, except that the weighted student unit 
total from its regular basic support payment shall be increased by 35 
percent and its learning opportunity threshold percentage shall be 
deemed to be 100.
    (d) For each eligible local educational agency, the calculated 
supplemental basic support payment shall be reduced by subtracting the 
agency's regular fiscal year 1999 section 8003(b) basic support payment.
    (e) The actual supplemental basic support payment that local 
educational agencies receive shall be treated under section 8009 in the 
same manner as payments under section 8003(f).
    (f) If the sums described in subsections (a)(1) and (2) above are 
insufficient to pay in full the calculated supplemental basic support 
payments for the local educational agencies identified in those 
subsections, the Secretary shall ratably reduce the supplemental basic 
support payment to each local educational agency: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Education shall treat as timely filed, and shall 
process for payment, an application for a fiscal year 1998 payment from 
the local educational agency for Prince Georges County, Maryland, under 
section 8003 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 if 
the Secretary has received that application not later than 30 days after 
the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That from the amount 
appropriated for section 8008 the Secretary shall award $500,000 to the 
Randolph Field Independent School District, Texas: Provided further, 
That for the purposes of computing the amount of payment for a local 
educational agency for children identified under section 8003, children 
residing in housing initially acquired or constructed under section 801 
of the Military Construction Authorization Act of 1984, (Public Law 98-
115)
(``Build to Lease'' program) shall be considered as children described 
under section 8003(a)(1)(B) if the property described is within the 
fenced security perimeter of the military facility upon which such 
housing is situated: Provided further, That if such property is not 
owned by the Federal Government, is subject to taxation by a State or 
political subdivision of a State, and thereby generates revenues for a 
local educational agency which received a payment from the Secretary 
under section 8003, the Secretary shall:
            (A) require such local educational agency to provide 
        certification from an appropriate official of the Department of 
        Defense that such property is being used to provide military 
        housing; and
            (B) reduce the amount of such payment by an amount equal to 
        the amount of revenue from such taxation received in the second 
        preceding fiscal year by such local educational agency, unless 
        the amount of such revenue was taken into account by the State 
        for such second preceding fiscal year and already resulted in a 
        reduction in the amount of State aid paid to such local 
        educational agency: Provided further, That of the funds 
        available for payments under section 8002, the Secretary shall 
        pay the San Diego, California, Centennial, Pennsylvania, and 
        Hatboro-Horsham, Pennsylvania, local educational agencies the 
        sum of $500,000 each, in addition to their regularly calculated 
        payments, except that the total funds these agencies receive 
        under this section may not exceed 50 percent of their maximum 
        section 8002 payments.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-368]]

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by titles 
II, IV, V-A and B, VI, IX, X, XII and XIII of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965; the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and part B of VIII of 
the Higher Education Act; $2,811,134,000, of which $2,381,300,000 shall 
become available on July 1, 1999, and remain available through September 
30, 2000: Provided, That of the amount appropriated, $335,000,000 shall 
be for Eisenhower professional development State grants under title II-B 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and 
$1,575,000,000 shall be for title VI, of which $1,200,000,000 shall be 
available, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to carry out 
title VI of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in 
accordance with section 307 of this Act, in order to reduce class size, 
particularly in the early grades, using highly qualified teachers to 
 improve educational achievement for regular and special needs children.

      For necessary expenses to carry out the Reading Excellence Act, 
$260,000,000, which shall become available on July 1, 1999, and shall 
              remain available through September 30, 2000.

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title IX, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
                    of 1965, as amended, $66,000,000.

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, bilingual, 
foreign language and immigrant education activities authorized by parts 
A and C and section 7203 of title VII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, without regard to section 7103(b), $380,000,000: 
Provided, That State educational agencies may use all, or any part of, 
their part C allocation for competitive grants to local educational 
                                agencies.

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 
$5,124,146,000, of which $4,879,885,000 shall become available for 
obligation on July 1, 1999, and shall remain available through September 
30, 2000: Provided, That $1,500,000 shall be awarded to The Organizing 
Committee for The 1999 Special Olympics World Summer Games and 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for preparation 
and planning and shall be awarded to The Organizing Committee of The 
2001 Special Olympics World Winter Games: Provided further, That 
$600,000 shall be for the Early Childhood Development Project of the 
National Easter Seal Society for the Mississippi Delta Region, which 
funds shall be used to provide training, technical support, services, 
and equipment to address personnel and other needs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-369]]

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Technology-Related Assistance for 
Individuals with Disabilities Act, or successor legislation and the 
Helen Keller National Center Act, as amended, $2,652,584,000.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, as amended (20 U.S.C. 101 
                          et seq.), $8,661,000.

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I and 
II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), 
$45,500,000: Provided, That from the amount available, the Institute may 
at its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized 
                           under section 207.

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model Secondary 
School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet University 
under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 
U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), $83,480,000: Provided, That from the amount 
available, the University may at its discretion use funds for the 
           endowment program as authorized under section 207.

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act and the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act, $1,539,247,000, of which 
$1,535,147,000 shall become available on July 1, 1999 and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2000: Provided, That of the amounts made 
available for title II of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied 
Technology Education Act, $13,497,000 shall be used by the Secretary for 
national programs under title IV, without regard to section 451: 
Provided further, That, of the amounts made available for the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act, $6,000,000 shall be for national 
leadership activities under section 243 and $6,000,000 shall be for the 
National Institute for Literacy under section 242: Provided further, 
That no funds shall be awarded to a State Council under section 112(f) 
of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, 
        and no State shall be required to operate such a Council.

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3 and 4 of part A, part C and part E of 
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 
$9,348,000,000, which shall remain available through September 30, 2000.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 1999-2000 shall be $3,125: Provided, <<NOTE: 20 USC 1070a 
note. federal family education loan program account>> That 
notwithstanding section 401(g) of the Act, if the Secretary determines,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-370]]

prior to publication of the payment schedule for such award year, that 
the amount included within this appropriation for Pell Grant awards in 
such award year, and any funds available from the fiscal year 1998 
appropriation for Pell Grant awards, are insufficient to satisfy fully 
all such awards for which students are eligible, as calculated under 
section 401(b) of the Act, the amount paid for each such award shall be 
reduced by either a fixed or variable percentage, or by a fixed dollar 
amount, as determined in accordance with a schedule of reductions 
established by the Secretary for this purpose: Provided further, That if 
the Secretary determines that the funds available to fund Pell Grants 
for award year 1999-2000 exceed the amount needed to fund Pell Grants at 
a maximum award of $3,125 for that award year, the Secretary may 
increase the income protection allowances in sections 475(g)(2)(D), and 
476(b)(1)(A)(iv)(I), (II) and (III) up to the amounts at which Pell 
Grant awards calculated using the increased income protection allowances 
equal the funds available to make Pell Grants in award year 1999-2000 
with a $3,125 maximum award, except that the income protection allowance 
in section 475(g)(2)(D) may not exceed $2,200, the income protection 
allowance in sections 476(b)(1)(A)(iv)(I) and (II) may not exceed 
$4,250, and the income protection allowance in section 
              476(b)(1)(A)(iv)(III) may not exceed $7,250.

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out guaranteed student 
loans authorized by title IV, part B, of the Higher Education Act, as 
                          amended, $46,482,000.

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, section 121 
and titles II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the Higher Education Act 
of 1965, as amended, and the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Act of 1961 and Public Law 102-73; $1,307,846,000, of which $13,000,000 
for interest subsidies authorized by section 121 of the Higher Education 
Act, shall remain available until expended: Provided, That $16,723,000 
shall be for Youth Offender Grants, of which $4,723,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 1999, and remain available until September 
30, 2000, shall be used in accordance with section 601 of Public Law 
102-73 as that section was in effect prior to enactment of Public Law 
105-220: Provided further, That $4,800,000, to be available until 
expended, shall be for Salem State College in Salem, Massachusetts for 
activities authorized under Title III, part A, section 311(c)(2), of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under title VII, part B, $5,000,000 shall be 
awarded to the St. Petersburg Junior College for a demonstration of a 
national method for increasing access to four year degrees and work 
force training for students attending community college; $2,000,000 
shall be for the Technology-Assisted Learning Campus in New Rochelle, 
New York for high-tech equipment; $250,000 shall be awarded to the 
Center for Urban Research and Learning, Loyola University, Chicago; 
$1,150,000 shall be awarded to the Southeast Community College in 
Letcher County, Kentucky; $3,000,000 shall be for the Oregon State 
University Distance Education Alliance; $1,000,000 shall be

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-371]]

for the Appalachian Center for Economic Networks in Athens, Ohio; 
$6,000,000 shall be to establish the Robert J. Dole Institute for Public 
Service and Public Policy on the University of Kansas campus in 
Lawrence, Kansas; $1,000,000 shall be for the Oregon Institute of Public 
Service and Constitutional Studies at the Mark O. Hatfield School of 
Government at Portland State University; $2,150,000 shall be awarded to 
the College of Natural Resources, University of Wisconsin at Stevens 
Point for technology-enhanced learning; $1,500,000 shall be for the
Touro Law Center in Central Islip, New York for the use of technology to 
bridge the gap between legal education and the actual practice of law; 
$1,000,000 shall be for the International Center for Educational 
Technology and Distance Learning at Empire State College; $500,000 shall 
be for the University of Northern Iowa National Institute of Technology 
for Inclusive Education; $1,500,000 shall be for a demonstration project 
to expand the successful college student preparation at Prairie View 
A&M, Texas; $750,000 shall be to identify and provide models of alcohol 
and drug abuse prevention and education in higher education at the 
college level; $500,000 shall be for a teacher training program in 
experiential learning to be awarded to the Department of Language 
Teacher Education, School for International Training, Brattleboro, 
Vermont; and $1,000,000 shall be for the Paul Simon Public Policy 
Institute at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, Illinois: 
Provided further, That $9,500,000 of the funds made available for title 
VII, part B shall be for a competition consistent with the subject areas 
outlined in the House and Senate reports and the statement of the 
managers, and that such competition should be administered in a manner 
      consistent with current departmental practices and policies.

    For partial support of Howard University (20 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), 
$214,489,000, of which not less than $3,530,000 shall be for a matching 
endowment grant pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act (Public 
         Law 98-480) and shall remain available until expended.

    For Federal administrative expenses authorized under section 121 of 
the Higher Education Act, $698,000 to carry out activities related to 
  existing facility loans entered into under the Higher Education Act.

    The total amount of bonds insured pursuant to section 344 of title 
III, part D of the Higher Education Act shall not exceed $357,000,000, 
and the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974, of such bonds shall not exceed zero.
    For administrative expenses to carry out the Historically Black 
College and University Capital Financing Program entered into pursuant 
to title III, part D of the Higher Education Act, as amended, $96,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-372]]

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Educational Research, 
Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994, including part 
E; the National Education Statistics Act of 1994; section 2102 of title 
II, and parts A, B, I, and K and section 10601 of title X, and part C of 
title XIII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as 
amended, and title VI of Public Law 103-227, $664,867,000: Provided, 
That $25,000,000
shall be available to demonstrate effective approaches to comprehensive 
school reform to be allocated and expended in accordance with the 
instructions relating to this activity in the statement of managers on 
the conference report accompanying Public Law 105-78 and in the 
statement of the managers on the conference report accompanying this 
Act: Provided further, That the funds made available for comprehensive 
school reform shall become available on July 1, 1999, and remain 
available through September 30, 2000, and in carrying out this 
initiative, the Secretary and the States shall support only approaches 
that show the most promise of enabling children to meet challenging 
State content standards and challenging State student performance 
standards based on reliable research and effective practices, and 
include an emphasis on basic academics and parental involvement: 
Provided further, That $16,000,000 of the funds made available for title 
X, part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, shall be 
carried out consistent with the subject areas outlined in the House and 
Senate reports and the statement of the managers, and should be 
administered in a manner consistent with current departmental practices 
and policies: Provided further, That, in addition to the $6,000,000 for 
Title VI of Public Law 103-227 and notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 601(c)(1)(C) of that Act, $1,000,000 shall be available to the 
Center for Civic Education to conduct a civic education program with 
Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland and, consistent with the 
civics and government activities authorized in section 601(c)(3) of 
Public Law 103-227, to provide civic education assistance to democracies 
in developing countries. The term ``developing countries'' shall have 
the same meaning as the term ``developing country'' in the Education for 
the Deaf Act: Provided further, That of the amount provided for part A 
of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 
$2,000,000 shall be for a demonstration of full service community school 
sites in Charles County, Maryland, Westchester County, New York, 
Cranston, Rhode Island, and Skagit County, Washington; $2,000,000 shall 
be awarded to First Book for literacy programs; $1,750,000 shall be 
awarded to the Whitaker Center for Science and the Arts, Harrisburg, 
Pennsylvania for teaching of science education using the arts; $350,000 
shall be awarded to the School of Education at the University of Montana 
and the Montana Board of Crime Control for community-based initiatives 
to promote non-violent behavior in schools; $1,000,000 shall be awarded 
to the NetDay organization to assist schools in connecting K-12 
classrooms to the Internet; $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the National 
Museum of Women in the Arts; $1,000,000 shall be awarded to Youth 
Friends of Kansas City to improve attendance and academic performance; 
$750,000 shall be awarded to the Thornberry Center for Youth and 
Families, Kansas City, Missouri to assist at-risk children; $400,000 
shall be for Bay Shore, New York for Literacy

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-373]]

Education and Assessment Partnerships; $1,150,000 shall be awarded to 
provide technology assistance and for operation of a math/science 
learning center in Perry County, Kentucky; $100,000 shall be for 
Presidio School District, Texas for library equipment and materials; 
$1,200,000 shall be for the Southeastern Pennsylvania Consortium for 
Higher Education; $1,000,000 shall be for the Dowling College Global 
Learning Center at the former LaSalle Academy in New York for a master 
teacher training and education center; $10,000,000 for continuing a 
demonstration of public school facilities repair and construction to the 
Iowa Department of Education;
and $1,000,000 shall be awarded to the Hechkscher Museum of Art, Long 
Island, New York for incorporating arts into education curriculum: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided for part I of title X of 
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, $500,000 shall be 
for after school programs for the Chippewa Falls Area United School 
System, Wisconsin; $400,000 shall be for after-school programs for the 
Wausau School System, Wisconsin; $350,000 shall be for the New Rochelle 
School System, New York, after-school programs; $100,000 shall be for 
the New York Hall of Science, Queens, New York, after-school program; 
$25,000 shall be for Louisville Central Community Centers Youth 
Education Program to support after-school programming; $25,000 shall be 
for Canaan's Community Development Corporation in Louisville, Kentucky 
for the Village Learning Center after-school program; $300,000 shall be 
for the Bay Shore Community Learning Wellness and Fitness Center for 
Drug Free Lifestyles in Bay Shore, New York; $2,500,000 shall be for an 
after school anti-drug pilot program in the Chicago Public Schools; and 
$400,000 shall be for the Green Bay, Wisconsin Public School System 
after school program: Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the funds 
provided for the national education research institutes shall be 
allocated notwithstanding section 931(c)(2)(B) of Public Law 103-227.

                         Departmental Management

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of two passenger motor 
                         vehicles, $362,000,000.

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
                            Act, $66,000,000.

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $31,242,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment 
for such transportation) in order to overcome racial

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-374]]

imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, except 
for a student requiring special education, to the school offering such 
special education, in order to comply with title VI of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an indirect requirement of 
transportation of students includes the transportation of students to 
carry out a plan involving the reorganization of the grade structure of 
schools, the pairing of schools, or the clustering of schools, or any 
combination of grade restructuring, pairing or clustering. The 
prohibition described in this section does not include the establishment 
of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303. No funds appropriated under this Act may be used to 
prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and 
                    meditation in the public schools.

    Sec. 304. Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as 
amended) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer: 
Provided, That the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress 
are notified at least fifteen days in advance of any transfer.

    Sec. 305. National Testing. (a) In General.--Part C of the General 
Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1231 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:

``SEC. 447. <<NOTE: 20 USC 1232j.>> PROHIBITION ON FEDERALLY SPONSORED 
            TESTING.

    ``(a) General Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
Federal law and except as provided in subsection (b), no funds provided 
to the Department of Education or to an applicable program, may be used 
to pilot test, field test, implement, administer or distribute in any 
way any federally sponsored national test in reading, mathematics, or 
any other subject that is not specifically and explicitly provided for 
in authorizing legislation enacted into law.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to the Third 
International Mathematics and Science Study or other international 
comparative assessments developed under the authority of section 
404(a)(6) of the National Education Statistics Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 
9003(a)(6) et seq.) and administered to only a representative sample of 
pupils in the United States and in foreign nations.''.
    (b) Authority of National Assessment Governing Board.--Subject to 
section 447 of the General Education Provisions Act, the exclusive 
authority over the direction and all policies and guidelines for 
developing voluntary national tests pursuant to contract RJ97153001 
previously entered into between the United States Department of 
Education and the American Institutes for Research and executed on 
August 15, 1997, and subsequently modified by the National Assessment 
Governing Board on February 11, 1998, shall continue to be vested in the 
National Assessment Governing

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-375]]

Board established under section 412 of the National Education Statistics 
Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 9011).
    (c) Studies.--
            (1) Purpose, definition, and achievement levels.--The 
        National Assessment Governing Board shall determine and clearly 
        articulate in a report the purpose and intended use of any 
        proposed federally sponsored national test. Such report shall 
        also include--
                    (A) a definition of the meaning of the term 
                ``voluntary'' in regards to the administration of any 
                national test; and
                    (B) a description of the achievement levels and 
                reporting methods to be used in grading any national 
                test.
        The report shall be submitted to the White House, the Committees 
        on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, 
        the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, and 
        the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate not later than September 30, 1999.
            (2) Response to report.--The National Assessment Governing 
        Board shall develop and submit to the entities identified in 
        paragraph (1) a report, not later than September 30, 1999, that 
        addresses and responds to the findings reported by the National 
        Academy of Sciences in the report entitled ``Grading the 
        Nation's Report Card: Evaluating NAEP and Transforming the 
        Assessment of Educational Progress'' that assert that the 
        achievement levels of the National Assessment of Educational 
        Progress (NAEP) are fundamentally flawed.
            (3) Technical feasibility.--The National Academy of Sciences 
        shall conduct a study regarding the technical feasibility, 
        validity, and reliability of including test items from the 
        National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) for 4th grade 
        reading and 8th grade mathematics or from other tests in State 
        and district assessments for the purpose of providing a common 
        measure of individual student performance. The National Academy 
        of Sciences shall submit, to the entities identified under 
        paragraph (1), an interim progress report not later than June 
        30, 1999 and a final report not later than September 30, 1999.

    Sec. 306. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
institution of higher education which receives funds under title III of 
the Higher Education Act, except for grants made under section 326, may 
use up to 20 percent of its award under part A or part B of the Act for 
endowment building purposes authorized under section 331. Any 
institution seeking to use part A or part B funds for endowment building 
purposes shall indicate such intention in its application to the 
Secretary and shall abide by departmental regulations governing the 
endowment challenge grant program.
    Sec. 307. (a) From the amount appropriated for title VI of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in accordance with this 
section, the Secretary of Education--
            (1) shall make available a total of $6,000,000 to the 
        Secretary of the Interior (on behalf of the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs) and the outlying areas for activities under this 
        section; and
            (2) shall allocate the remainder by providing each State the 
        greater of the amount the State would receive if a total of 
        $1,124,620,000 were allocated under section 1122 of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-376]]

        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 or under section 
        2202(b) of the Act for fiscal year 1998, except that such 
        allocations shall be ratably increased or decreased as may be 
        necessary.

    (b)(1) Each State that receives funds under this section shall 
distribute 100 percent of such funds to local educational agencies, of 
which--
            (A) 80 percent of such amount shall be allocated to such 
        local educational agencies in proportion to the number of 
        children, aged 5 to 17, who reside in the school district served 
        by such local educational agency from families with incomes 
        below the poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management 
        and Budget and revised annually in accordance with section 
        673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 
        9902(2))) applicable to a family of the size involved for the 
        most recent fiscal year for which satisfactory data is available 
        compared to the number of such individuals who reside in the 
        school districts served by all the local educational agencies in 
        the State for that fiscal year; and
            (B) 20 percent of such amount shall be allocated to such 
        local educational agencies in accordance with the relative 
        enrollments of children, aged 5 to 17, in public and private 
        nonprofit elementary and secondary schools within the boundaries 
        of such agencies;

    (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the award to a local 
educational agency under this section is less than the starting salary 
for a new teacher in that agency, the State shall not make the award 
unless the local educational agency agrees to form a consortium with not 
less than 1 other local educational agency for the purpose of reducing 
class size.
    (c)(1) Each local educational agency that receives funds under this 
section shall use such funds to carry out effective approaches to 
reducing class size with highly
qualified teachers to improve educational achievement for both regular 
and special-needs children, with particular consideration given to 
reducing class size in the early elementary grades for which some 
research has shown class size reduction is most effective.

    (2)(A) Each such local educational agency may pursue the goal of 
reducing class size through--
            (i) recruiting, hiring, and training certified regular and 
        special education teachers and teachers of special-needs 
        children, including teachers certified through State and local 
        alternative routes;
            (ii) testing new teachers for academic content knowledge, 
        and to meet State certification requirements that are consistent 
        with title II of the Higher Education Act of 1965; and
            (iii) providing professional development to teachers, 
        including special education teachers and teachers of special-
        needs children, consistent with title II of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965.

    (B) A local educational agency may use not more than a total of 15 
percent of the award received under this section for activities 
described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (A).
    (C) A local educational agency that has already reduced class size 
in the early grades to 18 or less children may use funds received under 
this section--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-377]]

            (i) to make further class-size reductions in grades 1 
        through 3;
            (ii) to reduce class size in kindergarten or other grades; 
        or
            (iii) to carry out activities to improve teacher quality, 
        including professional development.

    (3) Each such agency shall use funds under this section only to 
supplement, and not to supplant, State and local funds that, in the 
absence of such funds, would otherwise be spent for activities under 
this section.
    (4) No funds made available under this section may be used to 
increase the salaries or provide benefits, other than participation in 
professional development and enrichment programs, to teachers who are, 
or have been, employed by the local educational agency.
    (d)(1) Each State receiving funds under this section shall report on 
activities in the State under this section, consistent with section 
6202(a)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
    (2) Each school benefiting from this section, or the local 
educational agency serving that school, shall produce an annual report 
to parents, the general public, and the State educational agency, in 
easily understandable language, on student achievement that is a result 
of hiring additional highly qualified teachers and reducing class size.
    (e) If a local educational agency uses funds made available under 
this section for professional development activities, the agency shall 
ensure for the equitable participation of private nonprofit elementary 
and secondary schools in such activities. Section 6402 of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 shall not apply to other activities 
under this section.
    (f) Administrative Expenses.--A local educational agency that 
receives funds under this section may use not more than 3 percent of 
such funds for local administrative costs.
    (g) Request for Funds.--Each local educational agency that desires 
to receive funds under this section shall include in the application 
required under section 6303 of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 a description of the agency's program to reduce class size 
by hiring additional highly qualified teachers.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home and 
the United States Naval Home, to be paid from funds available in the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $70,745,000, of which 
$15,717,000 shall remain available until expended for construction and 
renovation of the physical plants at the United States Soldiers' and 
Airmen's Home and the United States Naval Home: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, a single contract or related 
contracts for the development and construction at the United States 
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, to include construction of a long-term care 
facility at the United States Naval Home and conversion of space in the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-378]]

Scott building at the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, may be 
employed which collectively include the full scope of the project: 
Provided further, That the solicitation and contract shall contain the 
clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232-18 and 252.232-
7007, Limitation of Government Obligations.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

    For expenses necessary for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service to carry out the provisions of the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973, as amended, $276,039,000.

                   Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as 
authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall be 
available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 
2001, $340,000,000: Provided, That no funds made available to the 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting by this Act shall be used to pay for 
receptions, parties, or similar forms of entertainment for Government 
officials or employees: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this paragraph shall be available or used to aid or support 
any program or activity from which any person is excluded, or is denied 
benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, religion, or sex: Provided further, That in addition to 
the amounts provided above, $15,000,000 shall be for digitalization, 
only if specifically authorized by subsequent legislation enacted by 
September 30, 1999.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor Management 
Relations Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 171-180, 182-183), including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-
Management Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a); and for expenses 
necessary for the Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the 
Civil Service Reform Act, Public Law 95-454 (5 U.S.C. ch. 71), 
$34,620,000, including $1,500,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2000, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management Cooperation 
Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a): Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, for special training 
activities and for arbitration services shall be credited to and merged 
with this account, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That fees for arbitration services shall be available only for 
education, training, and professional development of the agency 
workforce: Provided further, That the Director of the Service is 
authorized to accept and use on behalf of the United States gifts of 
services and real, personal, or other property in the aid
of any projects or functions within the Director's jurisdiction.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-379]]

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review 
Commission (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), $6,060,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    For carrying out subtitle B of the Museum and Library Services Act, 
$166,175,000, of which $25,000,000 shall be for national leadership 
projects, notwithstanding section 221(a)(1)(B): Provided, That of the 
amount provided, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be awarded to the National Constitution Center, established by Public 
Law 100-433, for exhibition design, program planning, and operation of 
the Center to serve as a model between museums and libraries; $750,000 
shall be for a Digital Geospatial and Numerical Data Library at the 
University of Idaho; $1,250,000 shall be awarded to the Franklin 
Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; $2,000,000 shall be to enhance 
digitization at the New York Public Library; $35,000 shall be for the 
Children's Museum of Manhattan; $300,000 shall be for the State 
Historical Society of Iowa; and $1,100,000 shall be for the Museum of 
Science and Industry in Chicago.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $7,015,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds.

        National Commission on Libraries and Information Science

    For necessary expenses for the National Commission on Libraries and 
Information Science, established by the Act of July 20, 1970 (Public Law 
91-345, as amended by Public Law 102-95), $1,000,000.

                     National Council on Disability

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
$2,344,000.

                     National Education Goals Panel

    For expenses necessary for the National Education Goals Panel, as 
authorized by title II, part A of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, 
$2,100,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-380]]

                     National Labor Relations Board

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, as amended (29 U.S.C. 141-167), and other laws, $184,451,000: 
Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be available to 
organize or assist in organizing agricultural laborers or used in 
connection with investigations, hearings, directives, or orders 
concerning bargaining units composed of agricultural laborers as 
referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 5, 1935 (29 U.S.C. 152), 
and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, 
and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
203), and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 95 
percent of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes: Provided further, That none of the funds made available by 
this Act shall be used in any way to promulgate a final rule (altering 
29 CFR part 103) regarding single location bargaining units in 
representation cases.

                        National Mediation Board

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151-188), including emergency boards 
appointed by the President, $8,400,000: Provided, That unobligated 
balances at the end of fiscal year 1999 not needed for emergency boards 
shall remain available for other statutory purposes through September 
30, 2000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health Review 
Commission (29 U.S.C. 661), $8,100,000.

                        Railroad Retirement Board

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $189,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 1999 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds $189,000,000: 
Provided, That the total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 
approximately equal amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal 
year.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-381]]

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2000, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
          payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board for 
administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act, $90,000,000, to be derived in such amounts 
as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement accounts and 
from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment insurance 
                          administration fund.

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, not more than $5,600,000, to 
be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad 
unemployment insurance account: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available in any other paragraph of this Act may be transferred to the 
Office; used to carry out any such transfer; used to provide any office 
space, equipment, office supplies, communications facilities or 
services, maintenance services, or administrative services for the 
Office; used to pay any salary, benefit, or award for any personnel of 
the Office; used to pay any other operating expense of the Office; or 
used to reimburse the Office for any service provided, or expense 
incurred, by the Office: <<NOTE: 45 USC 231f note.>>  Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading in this Act, or 
subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts, may be used for any 
audit, investigation, or review of the Medicare Program.

                     Social Security Administration

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the 
Federal Disability Insurance trust funds, as provided under sections 
 201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, $19,689,000.

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, $382,803,000, to remain available until expended.

    For making, after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977, for costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such 
amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2000, 
$141,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-382]]

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$21,552,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury.
    From funds provided under the previous paragraph, not less than 
$100,000,000 shall be available for payment to the Social Security trust 
funds for administrative expenses for conducting continuing disability 
reviews.
    In addition, $177,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2000, for payment to the Social Security trust funds for administrative 
expenses for continuing disability reviews as authorized by section 103 
of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of Public Law 105-33. The term 
``continuing disability reviews'' means reviews and redeterminations as 
defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act, as 
amended.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2000, $9,550,000,000, to remain 
                        available until expended.

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $5,996,000,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That not 
less than $1,600,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory Board: 
Provided further, That unobligated balances at the end of fiscal year 
1999 not needed for fiscal year 1999 shall remain available until 
expended to invest in the Social Security Administration computing 
network, including related equipment and non-payroll administrative 
expenses associated solely with this network: Provided further, That 
reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for expenditures for 
official time for employees of the Social Security Administration 
pursuant to section 7131 of title 5, United States Code, and for 
facilities or support services for labor organizations pursuant to 
policies, regulations, or procedures referred to in section 7135(b) of 
such title shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury, with 
interest, from amounts in the general fund not otherwise appropriated, 
as soon as possible after such expenditures are made.
    From funds provided under the previous paragraph, notwithstanding 
the provision under this heading in Public Law 105-78 regarding 
unobligated balances at the end of fiscal year 1998 not needed for such 
fiscal year, an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 from such unobligated 
balances shall, in addition to funding already

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-383]]

available under this heading for fiscal year 1999, be available for 
necessary expenses.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, not less than 
$200,000,000 shall be available for conducting continuing disability 
reviews.
    From funds provided under the first paragraph, the Commissioner of 
Social Security shall direct $6,000,000 for Federal-State partnerships
which will evaluate means to promote Medicare buy-in programs targeted 
to elderly and disabled individuals under titles XVIII and XIX of the 
Social Security Act.

    In addition to funding already available under this heading, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $355,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000, for continuing disability reviews as 
authorized by section 103 of Public Law 104-121 and section 10203 of 
Public Law 105-33. The term ``continuing disability reviews'' means 
reviews and redeterminations as defined under section 201(g)(1)(A) of 
the Social Security Act as amended.
    In addition, $75,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such section 1616(d) or 212(b)(3) in 
fiscal year 1999 exceed $75,000,000, the amounts shall be available in 
fiscal year 2000 only to the extent provided in advance in 
                          appropriations Acts.

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $12,000,000, together with not to exceed $44,000,000, to be 
transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the 
Social Security Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total provided 
in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation on 
Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be merged 
with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for which 
this account is available: Provided, That notice of such transfers shall 
be transmitted promptly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace as 
authorized in the United States Institute of Peace Act, $12,160,000.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act: Provided, That such transferred

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-384]]

balances are used for the same purpose, and for the same periods of 
time, for which they were originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the 
preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or video presentation designed to 
support or defeat legislation pending before the Congress or any State 
legislature, except in presentation to the Congress or any State 
legislature itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be used 
to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, or 
agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress or 
any State legislature.
    Sec. 504. The Secretaries of Labor and Education are each authorized 
to make available not to exceed $15,000 from funds available for 
salaries and expenses under titles I and III, respectively, for official 
reception and representation expenses; the Director of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service is authorized to make available for 
official reception and representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from 
the funds available for ``Salaries and expenses, Federal Mediation and 
Conciliation Service''; and the Chairman of the National Mediation Board 
is authorized to make available for official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from funds available for 
``Salaries and expenses, National Mediation Board''.

    Sec. 505. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be used to carry out any program of 
distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of 
any illegal drug.
    Sec. 506. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 507. When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-385]]

including but not limited to State and local governments and recipients 
of Federal research grants, shall clearly state: (1) the percentage of 
the total costs of the program or project which will be financed with 
Federal money; (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
program; and (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
project or program that will be financed by nongovernmental sources.
     <<NOTE: Abortions.>> Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds appropriated 
under this Act, and none of the funds in any trust fund to which funds 
are appropriated under this Act, shall be expended for any abortion.

    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated under this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage of 
abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 509. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
        life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
        the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a physician, 
        place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.

    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality,
entity, or private person of State, local, or private funds (other than 
a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).

    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
     <<NOTE: 31 USC 1301 note.>> Sec. 510. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, hereafter--
            (1) no amount may be transferred from an appropriation 
        account for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        and Education except as authorized in this or any subsequent 
        appropriation Act, or in the Act establishing the program or 
        activity for which funds are contained in this Act;
            (2) no department, agency, or other entity, other than the 
        one responsible for administering the program or activity for 
        which an appropriation is made in this Act, may exercise 
        authority for the timing of the obligation and expenditure of 
        such appropriation, or for the purpose for which it is obligated 
        and expended, except to the extent and in the manner otherwise 
        provided in sections 1512 and 1513 of title 31, United States 
        Code; and
            (3) no funds provided under this Act shall be available for 
        the salary (or any part thereof) of an employee who is 
        reassigned on a temporary detail basis to another position in 
        the employing agency or department or in any other agency or 
        department, unless the detail is independently approved by the 
        head of the employing department or agency.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-386]]

    Sec. 511. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
        purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury 
        or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in 
        utero under 45 CFR 46.208(a)(2) and section 498(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 512. (a) Limitation on Use of Funds for Promotion of 
Legalization of Controlled Substances.--None of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used for any activity that promotes the legalization 
of any drug or other substance included in schedule I of the schedules 
of controlled substances established by section 202 of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812).
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply 
when there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to 
the use of such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored 
clinical trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 513. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
        States and is subject to the requirement in section 4212(d) of 
        title 38, United States Code, regarding submission of an annual 
        report to the Secretary of Labor concerning employment of 
        certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
        that section for the most recent year for
which such requirement was applicable to such entity.

    Sec. 514. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the expenses of an election officer appointed by a court to 
oversee an election of any officer or trustee for the International 
Brotherhood of Teamsters.
    Sec. 515. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, 
unobligated balances remaining available at the end of fiscal year 1999 
from appropriations made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 1999 in this Act, shall remain available through December 31, 1999, 
for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations shall be notified at least 
fifteen days prior to the obligation of such funds.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(b)) providing for, or providing 
for the assignment of, a unique health identifier for an individual 
(except in an individual's capacity as an employer or a health care 
provider), until legislation is enacted specifically approving the 
standard.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-387]]

  TITLE VI--NATIONAL CENTER FOR COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE

    Sec. 601. Establishment of National Center For Complementary And 
Alternative Medicine.
    In General.--Title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
281 et seq.) is amended--
             <<NOTE: 42 USC 283g.>> (1) by striking section 404E; and
            (2) in part E, by adding at the end the following:

 ``Subpart 5--National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine

``SEC. 485D. <<NOTE: 42 USC 287c-21.>> PURPOSE OF CENTER.

    ``(a) In General.--The general purposes of the National Center for 
Complementary and Alternative Medicine (in this subpart referred to as 
the `Center') are the conduct and support of basic and applied research 
(including both intramural and extramural research), research training, 
the dissemination of health information, and other programs with respect 
to identifying, investigating, and validating complementary and 
alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines 
and systems. The Center shall be headed by a director, who shall be
appointed by the Secretary. The Director of the Center shall report 
directly to the Director of NIH.

    ``(b) Advisory Council.--The Secretary shall establish an advisory 
council for the Center in accordance with section 406, except that at 
least half of the members of the advisory council who are not ex officio 
members shall include practitioners licensed in one or more of the major 
systems with which the Center is concerned, and at least 3 individuals 
representing the interests of individual consumers of complementary and 
alternative medicine.
    ``(c) Complement to Conventional Medicine.--In carrying out 
subsection (a), the Director of the Center shall, as appropriate, study 
the integration of alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention 
systems, modalities, and disciplines with the practice of conventional 
medicine as a complement to such medicine and into health care delivery 
systems in the United States.
    ``(d) Appropriate Scientific Expertise and Coordination With 
Institutes and Federal Agencies.--The Director of the Center, after 
consultation with the advisory council for the Center and the division 
of research grants, shall ensure that scientists with appropriate 
expertise in research on complementary and alternative medicine are 
incorporated into the review, oversight, and management processes of all 
research projects and other activities funded by the Center. In carrying 
out this subsection, the Director of the Center, as necessary, may 
establish review groups with appropriate scientific expertise. The 
Director of the Center shall coordinate efforts with other Institutes 
and Federal agencies to ensure appropriate scientific input and 
management.
    ``(e) Evaluation of Various Disciplines and Systems.--In carrying 
out subsection (a), the Director of the Center shall identify and 
evaluate alternative and complementary medical treatment, diagnostic and 
prevention modalities in each of the disciplines and systems with which 
the Center is concerned, including each discipline and system in which 
accreditation, national certification, or a State license is available.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-388]]

    ``(f) Ensuring High Quality, Rigorous Scientific Review.--In order 
to ensure high quality, rigorous scientific review of complementary and 
alternative, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines and 
systems, the Director of the Center shall conduct or support the 
following activities:
            ``(1) Outcomes research and investigations.
            ``(2) Epidemiological studies.
            ``(3) Health services research.
            ``(4) Basic science research.
            ``(5) Clinical trials.
            ``(6) Other appropriate research and investigational 
        activities.

The Director of NIH, in coordination with the Director of the Center, 
shall designate specific personnel in each Institute to serve as full-
time liaisons with the Center in facilitating appropriate coordination 
and scientific input.
    ``(g) Data System; Information Clearinghouse.--
            ``(1) Data system.--The Director of the Center shall 
        establish a bibliographic system for the collection, storage, 
        and retrieval of worldwide research relating to complementary 
        and alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, 
        disciplines and systems. Such a system shall be regularly 
        updated and publicly accessible.
            ``(2) Clearinghouse.--The Director of the Center shall 
        establish an information clearinghouse to facilitate and 
        enhance, through the effective dissemination of information, 
        knowledge and understanding of alternative medical treatment, 
        diagnostic and prevention practices by health professionals, 
        patients, industry, and the public.

    ``(h) Research Centers.--The Director of the Center, after 
consultation with the advisory council for the Center, shall provide 
support for the development and
operation of multipurpose centers to conduct research and other 
activities described in subsection (a) with respect to complementary and 
alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines 
and systems. The provision of support for the development and operation 
of such centers shall include accredited complementary and alternative 
medicine research and education facilities.

    ``(i) Availability of Resources.--After consultation with the 
Director of the Center, the Director of NIH shall ensure that resources 
of the National Institutes of Health, including laboratory and clinical 
facilities, fellowships (including research training fellowship and 
junior and senior clinical fellowships), and other resources are 
sufficiently available to enable the Center to appropriately and 
effectively carry out its duties as described in subsection (a). The 
Director of NIH, in coordination with the Director of the Center, shall 
designate specific personnel in each Institute to serve as full-time 
liaisons with the Center in facilitating appropriate coordination and 
scientific input.
    ``(j) Availability of Appropriations.--Amounts appropriated to carry 
out this section for fiscal year 1999 are available for obligation 
through September 30, 2001. Amounts appropriated to carry out this 
section for fiscal year 2000 are available for obligation through 
September 30, 2001.''.
      (k) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 401(b)(2) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281(b)(2) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-389]]

                    ``(F) The National Center for Complementary and 
                Alternative Medicine.' ''.

                   TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Section 396(k)(9) of Title 47, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``at an annual rate of pay which exceeds the rate of 
basic pay in effect from time to time for level I of the Executive 
Schedule under 5312 of title 5, United States Code'' and inserting ``in 
excess of reasonable compensation as determined pursuant to Section 4958 
of the Internal Revenue Code for services that the officer or employee 
renders to organization'' after ``compensated.''
     <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396r-4 note.>> Sec. 702. The amount of the DSH 
allotment for the State of Minnesota for fiscal year 1999, specified in 
the table under section 1923(f)(2) of the Social Security Act (as 
amended by section 4721(a)(1) of Public Law 105-33) is deemed to be 
$33,000,000.

    Sec. 703. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396r-4 note.>>  The amount of the DSH 
allotment for the State of New Mexico for fiscal year 1999, specified in 
the table under section 1923(f)(2) of the Social Security Act (as 
amended by section 4721(a)(1) of Public Law 105-33) is deemed to be 
$9,000,000.

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396r-4 note.>> Sec. 704. Notwithstanding section 
1923(f)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4(f)(2)) (as 
amended by section 4721(a)(1) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public 
Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 511), the amount of the DSH allotment for Wyoming 
for fiscal year 1999 is deemed to be $95,000.

    Sec. 705. Extension of Certain Adjudication Provisions.--The Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
            (1) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``1997 and 
                1998'' and inserting ``1997, 1998, and 1999''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``October 1, 
                1998'' each place it appears and inserting ``October 1, 
                1999'' and
            (2) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in subsection 
        (b)(2), by striking ``September 30, 1998'' and inserting 
        ``September 30, 1999''.

    Sec. 706. (a) Section 2104(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397dd(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Additional allotment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the allotment 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall allot each 
                commonwealth and territory described in paragraph (3) 
                the applicable percentage specified in paragraph (2) of 
                the amount appropriated under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Appropriations.--For purposes of providing 
                allotments pursuant to subparagraph (A), there is 
                appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
                otherwise appropriated $32,000,000 for fiscal year 
                1999.''.

    (b) Section 2104(b)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(b)(1)) is 
amended by inserting ``(determined without regard to paragraph (4) 
thereof)'' after ``subsection (c)''.
    Sec. 707. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1397dd note.>>  Determination of Number of 
Children and State Cost Factors for Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999 for 
Purposes

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-390]]

of State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, for purposes of determining the product 
under section 2104(b)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397dd(b)(1)(A)) for a State for each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999--
            (1) the number of children under clause (i) of such section 
        shall be the number of low-income children specified for the 
        State in Column B of the table on pages 48101-48102 of the 
        Federal Register published on September 12, 1997, adjusted by 
        the Census Bureau as necessary to treat children as being 
        without health insurance if they have access to health care 
        funded by the Indian Health Service but do not have health 
        insurance; and
            (2) the State cost factor under clause (ii) of such section 
        shall be the State cost factor specified for the State in Column 
        C of such table.

    Sec. 708. (a) Extension of Deadline for Submission of Report by 
Commission To Assess the Organization of the Federal Government To 
Combat the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.--Section 
712(c)(1) of the Combating Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Act of 1996 (subtitle A of title VII of Public Law 104-293; 110 Stat. 
3470; 50 U.S.C. 2351 note) is amended by striking out ``the date of the 
enactment of this Act'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``January 18, 
1998''.
    (b) Membership of Commission.--Section 711 of that Act is amended-- 
<<NOTE: 50 USC 2351 note.>> 
            (1) in the matter preceding subsection (b)(1), by striking 
        out ``eight members'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``twelve 
        members, none of whom may, during the period of their service on 
        the Commission, be an officer or employee of any department, 
        agency, or other establishment of the Executive Branch (other 
        than the Commission), and'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking out ``one'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``three'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(4), by striking out ``one'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``three''; and
            (4) in subsection (e), by striking out ``the date on which 
        all members of the Commission have been appointed'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``the date of enactment of an Act 
        making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and 
        Human Services, and Education, and related agencies, for the 
        fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, regardless of whether all 
        the members of the Commission have been appointed as of that 
        date,''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 50 USC 2351 note.>> Restrictions on Activities of 
Commission.--Section 712(a) of that Act is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            (4) Restrictions.--In carrying out the study under paragraph 
        (1), making the assessments under paragraph (2), and addressing 
        the matters identified in paragraph (3), the Commission shall 
        not review, evaluate, or report on--
                    ``(A) United States domestic response capabilities 
                with respect to weapons of mass destruction; or
                    ``(B) the adequacy or usefulness of United States 
                laws that provide for the imposition of sanctions on 
                countries or entities that engage in the proliferation 
                of weapons of mass destruction.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-391]]

    (d) Limitation on Commission Expenditures.--Section 717 of that 
Act <<NOTE: 50 USC 2351 note.>> is amended by striking out ``shall be 
paid'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``shall not exceed $1,000,000, and 
shall be paid''.

    Sec. 709. Protection of Divorced Spouses. (a) In General.--Section 
6(c) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (45 U.S.C. 231e(c)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the last sentence of paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``(other than to a survivor in the circumstances described in 
        paragraph (3))'' after ``no further benefits shall be paid''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Notwithstanding the last sentence of paragraph (1), 
        benefits shall be paid to a survivor who--
                    ``(A) is a divorced wife; and
                    ``(B) through administrative error received benefits 
                otherwise precluded by the making of a lump sum payment 
                under this section to a widow;
        if that divorced wife makes an election to repay to the Board 
        the lump sum payment. The Board may withhold up to 10 percent of 
        each benefit amount paid after the date of the enactment of this 
        paragraph toward such reimbursement. The Board may waive such 
        repayment to the extent the Board determines it would cause an 
        unjust financial hardship for the beneficiary.''.

     <<NOTE: 45 USC 231e note.>> (b) Application of Amendment.--The 
amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to any benefits 
paid before the date of enactment of this Act as well as to benefits 
payable on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>> Sec. 710. For purposes of payments to 
States for medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act 
from amounts appropriated to carry out such title for fiscal year 1999 
and for any subsequent fiscal year, individuals who are PACE program 
eligible individuals under section 1934 of that Act and who meet the 
income and resource eligibility requirements of individuals who are 
eligible for medical assistance under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(VI) of 
that Act shall be treated as individuals described in such section 
1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(VI) during the period of their enrollment in the PACE 
program.

                   TITLE VIII--READING EXCELLENCE ACT

                 SUBTITLE I--READING AND LITERACY GRANTS

SEC. 101. AMENDMENT TO ESEA FOR READING AND LITERACY GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating parts C and D as parts D and E, 
        respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after part B the following:

                  ``PART C--READING AND LITERACY GRANTS

``SEC. 2251. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661.>>  PURPOSES.

    ``The purposes of this part are as follows:
            ``(1) To provide children with the readiness skills they 
        need to learn to read once they enter school.
            ``(2) To teach every child to read in the child's early 
        childhood years--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-392]]

                    ``(A) as soon as the child is ready to read; or
                    ``(B) as soon as possible once the child enters 
                school, but not later than 3d grade.
            ``(3) To improve the reading skills of students, and the 
        instructional practices for current teachers (and, as 
        appropriate, other instructional staff) who teach reading, 
        through the use of findings from scientifically based reading 
        research, including findings relating to phonemic awareness, 
        systematic phonics, fluency, and reading comprehension.
            ``(4) To expand the number of high-quality family literacy 
        programs.
            ``(5) To provide early literacy intervention to children who 
        are experiencing reading difficulties in order to reduce the 
        number of children who are incorrectly identified as a child 
        with a disability and inappropriately referred to special 
        education.

``SEC. 2252. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661a.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    ``For purposes of this part:
            ``(1) Eligible professional development provider.--The term 
        `eligible professional development provider' means a provider of 
        professional development in reading instruction to teachers that 
        is based on scientifically based reading research.
            ``(2) Family literacy services.--The term `family literacy 
        services' means services provided to participants on a voluntary 
        basis that are of sufficient intensity in terms of hours, and of 
        sufficient duration, to make sustainable changes in a family, 
        and that integrate all of the following activities:
                    ``(A) Interactive literacy activities between 
                parents and their children.
                    ``(B) Training for parents regarding how to be the 
                primary teacher for their children and full partners in 
                the education of their children.
                    ``(C) Parent literacy training that leads to 
                economic self-sufficiency.
                    ``(D) An age-appropriate education to prepare 
                children for success in school and life experiences.
            ``(3) Instructional staff.--The term `instructional staff'--
                    ``(A) means individuals who have responsibility for 
                teaching children to read; and
                    ``(B) includes principals, teachers, supervisors of 
                instruction, librarians, library school media 
                specialists, teachers of academic subjects other than 
                reading, and other individuals who have responsibility 
                for assisting children to learn to read.
            ``(4) Reading.--The term `reading' means a complex system of 
        deriving meaning from print that requires all of the following:
                    ``(A) The skills and knowledge to understand how 
                phonemes, or speech sounds, are connected to print.
                    ``(B) The ability to decode unfamiliar words.
                    ``(C) The ability to read fluently.
                    ``(D) Sufficient background information and 
                vocabulary to foster reading comprehension.
                    ``(E) The development of appropriate active 
                strategies to construct meaning from print.
                    ``(F) The development and maintenance of a 
                motivation to read.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-393]]

            ``(5) Scientifically based reading research.--The term 
        `scientifically based reading research'--
                    ``(A) means the application of rigorous, systematic, 
                and objective procedures to obtain valid knowledge 
                relevant to reading development, reading instruction, 
                and reading difficulties; and
                    ``(B) shall include research that--
                          ``(i) employs systematic, empirical methods 
                      that draw on observation or experiment;
                          ``(ii) involves rigorous data analyses that 
                      are adequate to test the stated hypotheses and 
                      justify the general conclusions drawn;
                          ``(iii) relies on measurements or 
                      observational methods that provide valid data 
                      across evaluators and observers and across 
                      multiple measurements and observations; and
                          ``(iv) has been accepted by a peer-reviewed 
                      journal or approved by a panel of independent 
                      experts through a comparably rigorous, objective, 
                      and scientific review.

``SEC. 2253. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661b.>>  READING AND LITERACY GRANTS TO 
            STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.

    ``(a) Program Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this part, 
        the Secretary shall award grants to State educational agencies 
        to carry out the reading and literacy activities authorized 
        under this section and sections 2254 through 2256.
            ``(2) Limitations.--
                    ``(A) Single grant per state.--A State educational 
                agency may not receive more than one grant under 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) 3-year term.--A State educational agency that 
                receives a grant under paragraph (1) may expend the 
                funds provided under the grant only during the 3-year 
                period beginning on the date on which the grant is made.

    ``(b) Application.--
            ``(1) In general.--A State educational agency that desires 
        to receive a grant under this part shall submit an application 
        to the Secretary at such time and in such form as the Secretary 
        may require. The application shall contain the information 
        described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Contents.--An application under this subsection shall 
        contain the following:
                    ``(A) An assurance that the Governor of the State, 
                in consultation with the State educational agency, has 
                established a reading and literacy partnership described 
                in subsection (d), and a description of how such 
                partnership--
                          ``(i) assisted in the development of the State 
                      plan;
                          ``(ii) will be involved in advising on the 
                      selection of subgrantees under sections 2255 and 
                      2256; and
                          ``(iii) will assist in the oversight and 
                      evaluation of such subgrantees.
                    ``(B) A description of the following:
                          ``(i) How the State educational agency will 
                      ensure that professional development activities 
                      related to reading instruction and provided under 
                      this part are--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-394]]

                                    ``(I) coordinated with other State 
                                and local level funds and used 
                                effectively to improve instructional 
                                practices for reading; and
                                    ``(II) based on scientifically based 
                                reading research.
                          ``(ii) How the activities assisted under this 
                      part will address the needs of teachers and other 
                      instructional staff, and will effectively teach 
                      students to read, in schools receiving assistance 
                      under section 2255 and 2256.
                          ``(iii) The extent to which the activities 
                      will prepare teachers in all the major components 
                      of reading instruction (including phonemic 
                      awareness, systematic phonics, fluency, and 
                      reading comprehension).
                          ``(iv) How the State educational agency will 
                      use technology to enhance reading and literacy 
                      professional development activities for teachers, 
                      as appropriate.
                          ``(v) How parents can participate in literacy-
                      related activities assisted under this part to 
                      enhance their children's reading.
                          ``(vi) How subgrants made by the State 
                      educational agency under sections 2255 and 2256 
                      will meet the requirements of this part, including 
                      how the State educational agency will ensure that 
                      subgrantees will use practices based on 
                      scientifically based reading research.
                          ``(vii) How the State educational agency will, 
                      to the extent practicable, make grants to 
                      subgrantees in both rural and urban areas.
                          ``(viii) The process that the State used to 
                      establish the reading and literacy partnership 
                      described in subsection (d).
                    ``(C) An assurance that each local educational 
                agency to which the State educational agency makes a 
                subgrant--
                          ``(i) will provide professional development 
                      for the classroom teacher and other appropriate 
                      instructional staff on the teaching of reading 
                      based on scientifically based reading research;
                          ``(ii) will provide family literacy services 
                      based on programs such as the Even Start family 
                      literacy model authorized under part B of title I, 
                      to enable parents to be their child's first and 
                      most important teacher;
                          ``(iii) will carry out programs to assist 
                      those kindergarten students who are not ready for 
                      the transition to first grade, particularly 
                      students experiencing difficulty with reading 
                      skills; and
                          ``(iv) will use supervised individuals 
                      (including tutors), who have been appropriately 
                      trained using scientifically based reading 
                      research, to provide additional support, before 
                      school, after school, on weekends, during 
                      noninstructional periods of the school day, or 
                      during the summer, for children preparing to enter 
                      kindergarten and students in kindergarten through
grade 3 who are experiencing difficulty reading.
                    ``(D) An assurance that instruction in reading will 
                be provided to children with reading difficulties who--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-395]]

                          ``(i) are at risk of being referred to special 
                      education based on these difficulties; or
                          ``(ii) have been evaluated under section 614 
                      of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                      but, in accordance with section 614(b)(5) of such 
                      Act, have not been identified as being a child 
                      with a disability (as defined in section 602 of 
                      the such Act).
                    ``(E) A description of how the State educational 
                agency--
                          ``(i) will build on, and promote coordination 
                      among, literacy programs in the State (including 
                      federally funded programs such as the Adult 
                      Education and Family Literacy Act and the 
                      Individuals with Disabilities Education Act), in 
                      order to increase the effectiveness of the 
                      programs in improving reading for adults and 
                      children and to avoid duplication of the efforts 
                      of the programs;
                          ``(ii) will promote reading and library 
                      programs that provide access to engaging reading 
                      material;
                          ``(iii) will make local educational agencies 
                      described in sections 2255(a)(1) and 2256(a)(1) 
                      aware of the availability of subgrants under 
                      sections 2255 and 2256; and
                          ``(iv) will assess and evaluate, on a regular 
                      basis, local educational agency activities 
                      assisted under this part, with respect to whether 
                      they have been effective in achieving the purposes 
                      of this part.
                    ``(F) A description of the evaluation instrument the 
                State educational agency will use for purposes of the 
                assessments and evaluations under subparagraph (E)(iv).

    ``(c) Approval of Applications.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall approve an 
        application of a State educational agency under this section 
        only--
                    ``(A) if such application meets the requirement of 
                this section; and
                    ``(B) after taking into account the extent to which 
                the application furthers the purposes of this part and 
                the overall quality of the application.
            ``(2) Peer review.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with the National Institute for Literacy, shall convene 
                a panel to evaluate applications under this section. At 
                a minimum, the panel shall include--
                          ``(i) representatives of the National 
                      Institute for Literacy, the National Research 
                      Council of the National Academy of Sciences, and 
                      the National Institute of Child Health and Human 
                      Development;
                          ``(ii) 3 individuals selected by the 
                      Secretary;
                          ``(iii) 3 individuals selected by the National 
                      Institute for Literacy;
                          ``(iv) 3 individuals selected by the National 
                      Research Council of the National Academy of 
                      Sciences; and
                          ``(v) 3 individuals selected by the National 
                      Institute of Child Health and Human Development.
                    ``(B) Experts.--The panel shall include experts who 
                are competent, by virtue of their training, expertise, 
                or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-396]]

                experience, to evaluate applications under this section, 
                and experts who provide professional development to 
                teachers of reading to children and adults, and experts 
                who provide professional development to other 
                instructional staff, based on scientifically based 
                reading research.
                    ``(C) Priority.--The panel shall recommend grant 
                applications from State educational agencies under this 
                section to the Secretary for funding or for disapproval. 
                In making such recommendations, the panel shall give 
                priority to applications from State educational agencies 
                whose States have modified, are modifying, or provide an 
                assurance that not later than 18 months after receiving 
                a grant under this section the State educational 
                agencies will increase the training and the methods of 
                teaching reading required for certification as an 
                elementary school teacher to reflect scientifically 
                based reading research, except that nothing in this Act 
                shall be construed to establish a national system of 
                teacher certification.
                    ``(D) Minimum grant amounts.--
                          ``(i) States.--Each State educational agency 
                      selected to receive a grant under this section 
                      shall receive an amount for the grant period that 
                      is not less than $500,000.
                          ``(ii) Outlying areas.--The Virgin Islands, 
                      Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the 
                      Northern Mariana Islands selected to receive a 
                      grant under this section shall receive an amount 
                      for the grant period that is not less than 
                      $100,000.
                    ``(E) Limitation.--The Republic of the Marshall 
                Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the 
                Republic of Palau shall not be eligible to receive a 
                grant under this part.

    ``(d) Reading and Literacy Partnerships.--
            ``(1) Required participants.--In order for a State 
        educational agency to receive a grant under this section, the 
        Governor of the State, in consultation with the State 
        educational agency, shall establish a reading and literacy 
        partnership consisting of at least the following participants:
                    ``(A) The Governor of the State.
                    ``(B) The chief State school officer.
                    ``(C) The chairman and the ranking member of each 
                committee of the State legislature that is responsible 
                for education policy.
                    ``(D) A representative, selected jointly by the 
                Governor and the chief State school officer, of at least 
                one local educational agency that is eligible to receive 
                a subgrant under section 2255.
                    ``(E) A representative, selected jointly by the 
                Governor and the chief State school officer, of a 
                community-based organization working with children to 
                improve their reading skills, particularly a community-
                based organization using tutors and scientifically based 
                reading research.
                    ``(F) State directors of appropriate Federal or 
                State programs with a strong reading component.
                    ``(G) A parent of a public or private school student 
                or a parent who educates their child or children in 
                their

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-397]]

                home, selected jointly by the Governor and the chief 
                State school officer.
                    ``(H) A teacher who successfully teaches reading and 
                an instructional staff member, selected jointly by the 
                Governor and the chief State school officer.
                    ``(I) A family literacy service provider selected 
                jointly by the Governor and the chief State school 
                officer.
            ``(2) Optional participants.--A reading and literacy 
        partnership may include additional participants, who shall be 
        selected jointly by the Governor and the chief State school 
        officer, and who may include a representative of--
                    ``(A) an institution of higher education operating a 
                program of teacher preparation based on scientifically 
                based reading research in the State;
                    ``(B) a local educational agency;
                    ``(C) a private nonprofit or for-profit eligible 
                professional development provider providing instruction 
                based on scientifically based reading research;
                    ``(D) an adult education provider;
                    ``(E) a volunteer organization that is involved in 
                reading programs; or
                    ``(F) a school library or a public library that 
                offers reading or literacy programs for children or 
                families.
            ``(3) Preexisting partnership.--If, before the date of the 
        enactment of the Reading Excellence Act, a State established a 
        consortium, partnership, or any other similar body, that 
        includes the Governor and the chief State school officer and 
        has, as a central part of its mission, the promotion of literacy 
        for children in their early childhood years through the 3d grade 
        and family literacy services, but that does not satisfy the 
        requirements of paragraph (1), the State may elect to treat that 
        consortium, partnership, or body as the reading and literacy 
        partnership for the State notwithstanding such paragraph, and it 
        shall be considered a reading and literacy partnership for 
        purposes of the other provisions of this part.

``SEC. 2254. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661c.>>  USE OF AMOUNTS BY STATE 
            EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.

    ``A State educational agency that receives a grant under section 
2253--
            ``(1) shall use not more than 5 percent of the funds made 
        available under the grant for the administrative costs of 
        carrying out this part (excluding section 2256), of which not 
        more than 2 percent may be used to carry out section 2259; and
            ``(2) shall use not more than 15 percent of the funds made 
        available under the grant to solicit applications for, award, 
        and oversee the performance of, not less than one subgrant 
        pursuant to section 2256.

``SEC. 2255. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661d.>> LOCAL READING IMPROVEMENT 
            SUBGRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Subgrants.--A State educational agency that receives a 
        grant under section 2253 shall make subgrants, on a competitive 
        basis, to local educational agencies that either--
                    ``(A) have at least one school that is identified 
                for school improvement under section 1116(c) in the 
                geographic area served by the agency;
                    ``(B) have the largest, or second largest, number of 
                children who are counted under section 1124(c), in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-398]]

                comparison to all other local educational agencies in 
                the State; or
                    ``(C) have the highest, or second highest, school-
                age child poverty rate, in comparison to all other local 
                educational agencies in the State.
        For purposes of subparagraph (C), the term `school-age child 
        poverty rate' means the number of children counted under section 
        1124(c) who are living within the geographic boundaries of the 
        local educational agency, expressed as a percentage of the total 
        number of children aged 5-17 years living within the geographic 
        boundaries of the local educational agency.
            ``(2) Subgrant amount.--A subgrant under this section shall 
        consist of an amount sufficient to enable the subgrant recipient 
        to operate a program for a 2-year period and may not be revoked 
        or terminated on the grounds that a school ceases, during the 
        grant period, to meet the requirements of subparagraph (A), (B), 
        or (C) of paragraph (1).

    ``(b) Applications.--A local educational agency that desires to 
receive a subgrant under this section shall submit an application to the 
State educational agency at such time, in such manner, and including 
such information as the agency may require. The application--
            ``(1) shall describe how the local educational agency will 
        work with schools selected by the agency to receive assistance 
        under subsection (d)(1)--
                    ``(A) to select one or more programs of reading 
                instruction, developed using scientifically based 
                reading research, to improve reading instruction by all 
                academic teachers for all children in each of the 
                schools selected by the agency under such subsection 
                and, where appropriate, for their parents; and
                    ``(B) to enter into an agreement with a person or 
                entity responsible for the development of each program 
                selected under subparagraph (A), or a person with 
                experience or expertise about the program and its 
                implementation, under which the person or entity agrees 
                to work with the local educational agency and the 
                schools in connection with such implementation and 
                improvement efforts;
            ``(2) shall include an assurance that the local educational 
        agency--
                    ``(A) will carry out professional development for 
                the classroom teacher and other instructional staff on 
                the teaching of reading based on scientifically based 
                reading research;
                    ``(B) will provide family literacy services based on 
                programs such as the Even Start family literacy model 
                authorized under part B of title I, to enable parents to 
                be their child's first and most important teacher;
                    ``(C) will carry out programs to assist those 
                kindergarten students who are not ready for the 
                transition to first grade, particularly students 
                experiencing difficulty with reading skills; and
                    ``(D) will use supervised individuals (including 
                tutors), who have been appropriately trained using 
                scientifically based reading research, to provide 
                additional support, before school, after school, on 
                weekends, during noninstructional periods of the school 
                day, or during the summer,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-399]]

                for children preparing to enter kindergarten and 
                students in kindergarten through grade 3 who are 
                experiencing difficulty reading;
            ``(3) shall describe how the applicant will ensure that 
        funds available under this part, and funds available for reading 
        instruction for kindergarten through grade 6 from other 
        appropriate sources, are effectively coordinated, and, where 
        appropriate, integrated with funds under this Act in order to 
        improve existing activities in the areas of reading instruction, 
        professional development, program improvement, parental 
        involvement, technical assistance, and other activities that can 
        help meet the purposes of this part;
            ``(4) shall describe, if appropriate, how parents, tutors, 
        and early childhood education providers will
be assisted by, and participate in, literacy-related activities 
receiving financial assistance under this part to enhance children's 
reading fluency;
            ``(5) shall describe how the local educational agency--
                    ``(A) provides instruction in reading to children 
                with reading difficulties who--
                          ``(i) are at risk of being referred to special 
                      education based on these difficulties; or
                          ``(ii) have been evaluated under section 614 
                      of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                      but, in accordance with section 614(b)(5) of such 
                      Act, have not been identified as being a child 
                      with a disability (as defined in section 602 of 
                      the such Act); and
                    ``(B) will promote reading and library programs that 
                provide access to engaging reading material; and
            ``(6) shall include an assurance that the local educational 
        agency will make available, upon request and in an 
        understandable and uniform format, to any parent of a student 
        attending any school selected to receive assistance under 
        subsection (d)(1) in the geographic area served by the local 
        educational agency, information regarding the professional 
        qualifications of the student's classroom teacher to provide 
        instruction in reading.

    ``(c) Special Rule.--To the extent feasible, a local educational 
agency that desires to receive a grant under this section shall form a 
partnership with one or more community-based organizations of 
demonstrated effectiveness in early childhood literacy, and reading 
readiness, reading instruction, and reading achievement for both adults 
and children, such as a Head Start program, family literacy program, 
public library, or adult education program, to carry out the functions 
described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (b). In evaluating 
subgrant applications under this section, a State educational agency 
shall consider whether the applicant has satisfied the requirement in 
the preceding sentence. If not, the applicant must provide information 
on why it would not have been feasible for the applicant to have done 
so.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), a local 
        educational agency that receives a subgrant under this section 
        shall use amounts from the subgrant to carry out activities to 
        advance reform of reading instruction in any school that (A) is 
        described in subsection (a)(1)(A), (B) has the largest, or 
        second largest, number of children who are counted under section 
        1124(c), in comparison to all other schools in the local 
        educational agency, or (C) has the highest, or second highest,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-400]]

        school-age child poverty rate (as defined in the second sentence 
        of subsection (a)(1)), in comparison to all other schools in the 
        local educational agency. Such activities shall include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Securing technical and other assistance from--
                          ``(i) a program of reading instruction based 
                      on scientifically based reading research;
                          ``(ii) a person or entity with experience or 
                      expertise about such program and its 
                      implementation, who has agreed to work with the 
                      recipient in connection with its implementation; 
                      or
                          ``(iii) a program providing family literacy 
                      services.
                    ``(B) Providing professional development activities 
                to teachers and other instructional staff (including 
                training of tutors), using scientifically based reading 
                research and purchasing of curricular and other 
                supporting materials.
                    ``(C) Promoting reading and library programs that 
                provide access to engaging reading material.
                    ``(D) Providing, on a voluntary basis, training to 
                parents of children enrolled in a school selected to 
                receive assistance under subsection (d)(1) on how to 
                help their children with school work, particularly in 
                the development of reading skills. Such training may be 
                provided directly by the subgrant recipient, or through 
                a grant or contract with another person. Such training 
                shall be consistent with reading reforms taking place in 
                the school setting. No parent shall be required to 
                participate in such training.
                    ``(E) Carrying out family literacy services based on 
                programs such as the Even Start family literacy model 
                authorized under part B of title I, to enable parents to 
                be their child's first and most important teacher.
                    ``(F) Providing instruction for parents of children 
                enrolled in a school selected to receive assistance 
                under subsection (d)(1), and others who volunteer to be 
                reading tutors for such children, in the instructional 
                practices based on scientifically based reading research 
                used by the applicant.
                    ``(G) Programs to assist those kindergarten students 
                enrolled in a school selected to receive assistance 
                under subsection (d)(1) who are not ready for the 
                transition to first grade, particularly students 
                experiencing difficulty with reading skills.
                    ``(H) Providing additional support for children 
                preparing to enter kindergarten and students in 
                kindergarten through grade 3 who are enrolled in a 
                school selected to receive assistance under subsection 
                (d)(1), who are experiencing difficulty reading, before 
                school, after school, on weekends, during 
                noninstructional periods of the school day, or during 
                the summer, using supervised individuals (including 
                tutors), who have been appropriately trained using 
                scientifically based reading research.
                    ``(I) Providing instruction in reading to children 
                with reading difficulties who--
                          ``(i) are at risk of being referred to special 
                      education based on these difficulties; or
                          ``(ii) have been evaluated under section 614 
                      of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                      but, in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-401]]

                      accordance with section 614(b)(5) of such Act, 
                      have not been identified as being a child with a 
                      disability (as defined in section 602 of the such 
                      Act).
                    ``(J) Providing coordination of reading, library, 
                and literacy programs within the local educational 
                agency to avoid duplication and increase the 
                effectiveness of reading, library, and literacy 
                activities.
            ``(2) Limitation on administrative expenses.--A recipient of 
        a subgrant under this section may use not more than 5 percent of 
        the subgrant funds for administrative costs.

    ``(e) Training Nonrecipients.--A recipient of a subgrant under this 
section may train, on a fee-for-service basis, personnel from schools, 
or local educational agencies, that are not a beneficiary of, or 
receiving, such a subgrant, in the instructional practices based on 
scientifically based reading research used by the recipient. Such a 
nonrecipient school or agency may use funds received under title I of 
this Act, and other appropriate Federal funds used for reading 
instruction, to pay for such training, to the extent consistent with the 
law under which such funds were received.

``SEC. 2256. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661e.>>  TUTORIAL ASSISTANCE SUBGRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Subgrants.--Except as provided in paragraph (4), a 
        State educational agency that receives a grant under section 
        2253 shall make at least one subgrant on a competitive basis 
        to--
                    ``(A) local educational agencies that have at least 
                one school in the geographic area served by the agency 
                that--
                          ``(i) is located in an area designated as an 
                      empowerment zone under part I of subchapter U of 
                      chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
                          ``(ii) is located in an area designated as an 
                      enterprise community under part I of subchapter U 
                      of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
                    ``(B) local educational agencies that have at least 
                one school that is identified for school improvement 
                under section 1116(c) in the geographic area served by 
                the agency;
                    ``(C) local educational agencies with the largest, 
                or second largest, number of children who are counted 
                under section 1124(c), in comparison to all other local 
                educational agencies in the State; or
                    ``(D) local educational agencies with the highest, 
                or second highest, school-age child poverty rate, in 
                comparison to all other local educational agencies in 
                the State.
        For purposes of subparagraph (D), the term `school-age child 
        poverty rate' means the number of children counted under section 
        1124(c) who are living within the geographic boundaries of the 
        local educational agency, expressed as a percentage of the total 
        number of children aged 5-17 years living within the geographic 
        boundaries of the local educational agency.
            ``(2) Notification.--
                    ``(A) To local educational agencies.--A State 
                educational agency shall provide notice to all local 
                educational agencies within the State regarding the 
                availability of the subgrants under this section.
                    ``(B) To providers and parents.--Not later than 30 
                days after the date on which the State educational 
                agency

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-402]]

                provides notice under subparagraph (A), each local 
                educational agency described in paragraph (1) shall, as 
                a condition on the agency's receipt of funds made 
                available under title I of this Act, provide public 
                notice to potential providers of tutorial assistance 
                operating in the jurisdiction of the agency, and parents 
                residing in such jurisdiction, regarding the 
                availability of the subgrants under this section.
            ``(3) Application.--A local educational agency that desires 
        to receive a subgrant under this section shall submit an 
        application to the State educational agency at such time, in 
        such manner, and including such information as the agency may 
        require. The application shall include an assurance that the 
        local
educational agency will use the subgrant funds to carry out the duties 
described in subsection (b) for children enrolled in any school selected 
by the agency that (A) is described in paragraph (1)(A), (B) is 
described in paragraph (1)(B), (C) has the largest, or second largest, 
number of children who are counted under section 1124(c), in comparison 
to all other schools in the local educational agency, or (D) has the 
highest, or second highest, school-age child poverty rate (as defined in 
the second sentence of paragraph (1)), in comparison to all other 
schools in the local educational agency.
            ``(4) Exception.--If no local educational agency within the 
        State submits an application to receive a subgrant under this 
        section within the 6-month period beginning on the date on which 
        the State educational agency provided notice to the local 
        educational agencies regarding the availability of the 
        subgrants, the State educational agency may use funds otherwise 
        reserved under 2254(2) for the purpose of providing local 
        reading improvement subgrants under section 2255 if the State 
        educational agency certifies to the Secretary that the 
        requirements of paragraph (2) have been met and each local 
        educational agency in the State described in subparagraph (B) of 
        such paragraph has demonstrated to the State educational agency 
        that no  provider  of  tutorial  assistance  described in such 
        subparagraph requested the local educational agency to submit 
        under paragraph (3) an application for a tutorial assistance 
        subgrant.

    ``(b) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--A local educational agency that receives 
        a subgrant under this section shall carry out, using the funds 
        provided under the subgrant, each of the duties described in 
        paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Duties.--The duties described in this paragraph are 
        the provision of tutorial assistance in reading, before school, 
        after school, on weekends, or during the summer, to children who 
        have difficulty reading, using instructional practices based on 
        scientifically based reading research, through the following:
                    ``(A) The creation and implementation of objective 
                criteria to determine in a uniform manner the 
                eligibility of tutorial assistance providers and 
                tutorial assistance programs desiring to provide 
                tutorial assistance under the subgrant. Such criteria 
                shall include the following:
                          ``(i) A record of effectiveness with respect 
                      to reading readiness, reading instruction for 
                      children in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-403]]

                      kindergarten through 3d grade, and early childhood 
                      literacy, as appropriate.
                          ``(ii) Location in a geographic area 
                      convenient to the school or schools attended by 
                      the children who will be receiving tutorial 
                      assistance.
                          ``(iii) The ability to provide tutoring in 
                      reading to children who have difficulty reading, 
                      using instructional practices based on 
                      scientifically based reading research and 
                      consistent with the reading instructional methods 
                      and content used by the school the child attends.
                    ``(B) The provision, to parents of a child eligible 
                to receive tutorial assistance pursuant to this section, 
                of multiple choices among tutorial assistance providers 
                and tutorial assistance programs determined to be 
                eligible under the criteria described in subparagraph 
                (A). Such choices shall include a school-based program 
                and at least one tutorial assistance program operated by 
                a provider pursuant to a contract with the local 
                educational agency.
                    ``(C) The development of procedures--
                          ``(i) for the provision of information to 
                      parents of an eligible child regarding such 
                      parents' choices for tutorial assistance for the 
                      child;
                          ``(ii) for considering children for tutorial 
                      assistance who are identified under subparagraph 
                      (D) and for whom no parent has selected a tutorial 
                      assistance provider or tutorial assistance program 
                      that give such parents additional opportunities to 
                      select a tutorial assistance provider or tutorial 
                      assistance program referred to in subparagraph 
                      (B); and
                          ``(iii) that permit a local educational agency 
                      to recommend a tutorial assistance provider or 
                      tutorial assistance program in a case where a 
                      parent asks for assistance in the making of such 
                      selection.
                    ``(D) The development of a selection process for 
                providing tutorial assistance in accordance with this 
                paragraph that limits the provision of assistance to 
                children identified, by the school the child attends, as 
                having difficulty reading, including difficulty 
                mastering phonemic awareness, systematic phonics, 
                fluency, and reading comprehension.
                    ``(E) The development of procedures for selecting 
                children to receive tutorial assistance, to be used in 
                cases where insufficient funds are available to provide 
                assistance with respect to all children identified by a 
                school under subparagraph (D), that--
                          ``(i) give priority to children who are 
                      determined, through State or local reading
assessments, to be most in need of tutorial assistance; and
                          ``(ii) give priority, in cases where children 
                      are determined, through State or local reading 
                      assessments, to be equally in need of tutorial 
                      assistance, based on a random selection principle.
                    ``(F) The development of a methodology by which 
                payments are made directly to tutorial assistance 
                providers who are identified and selected pursuant to 
                this section and selected for funding. Such methodology 
                shall include the making of a contract, consistent with 
                State and local

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-404]]

                law, between the provider and the local educational 
                agency. Such contract shall satisfy the following 
                requirements:
                          ``(i) It shall contain specific goals and 
                      timetables with respect to the performance of the 
                      tutorial assistance provider.
                          ``(ii) It shall require the tutorial 
                      assistance provider to report to the local 
                      educational agency on the provider's performance 
                      in meeting such goals and timetables.
                          ``(iii) It shall specify the measurement 
                      techniques that will be used to evaluate the 
                      performance of the provider.
                          ``(iv) It shall require the provider to meet 
                      all applicable Federal, State, and local health, 
                      safety, and civil rights laws.
                          ``(v) It shall ensure that the tutorial 
                      assistance provided under the contract is 
                      consistent with reading instruction and content 
                      used by the local educational agency.
                          ``(vi) It shall contain an agreement by the 
                      provider that information regarding the identity 
                      of any child eligible for, or enrolled in the 
                      program, will not be publicly disclosed without 
                      the permission of a parent of the child.
                          ``(vii) It shall include the terms of an 
                      agreement between the provider and the local 
                      educational agency with respect to the provider's 
                      purchase and maintenance of adequate general 
                      liability insurance.
                          ``(viii) It shall contain provisions with 
                      respect to the making of payments to the provider 
                      by the local educational agency.
                    ``(G) The development of procedures under which the 
                local educational agency carrying out this paragraph--
                          ``(i) will ensure oversight of the quality and 
                      effectiveness of the tutorial assistance provided 
                      by each tutorial assistance provider that is 
                      selected for funding;
                          ``(ii) will provide for the termination of 
                      contracts with ineffective and unsuccessful 
                      tutorial assistance providers (as determined by 
                      the local educational agency based upon the 
                      performance of the provider with respect to the 
                      goals and timetables contained in the contract 
                      between the agency and the provider under 
                      subparagraph (F));
                          ``(iii) will provide to each parent of a child 
                      identified under subparagraph (D) who requests 
                      such information for the purpose of selecting a 
                      tutorial assistance provider for the child, in a 
                      comprehensible format, information with respect to 
                      the quality and effectiveness of the tutorial 
                      assistance referred to in clause (i);
                          ``(iv) will ensure that each school 
                      identifying a child under subparagraph (D) will 
                      provide upon request, to a parent of the child, 
                      assistance in selecting, from among the tutorial 
                      assistance providers who are identified pursuant 
                      to subparagraph (B) the provider who is best able 
                      to meet the needs of the child;
                          ``(v) will ensure that parents of a child 
                      receiving tutorial assistance pursuant to this 
                      section are

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-405]]

                      informed of their child's progress in the tutorial 
                      program; and
                          ``(vi) will ensure that it does not disclose 
                      the name of any child who may be eligible for 
                      tutorial assistance pursuant to this section, the 
                      name of any parent of such a child, or any other 
                      personally identifiable information about such a 
                      parent or child, to any tutorial assistance 
                      provider (excluding the agency itself), without 
                      the prior written consent of such parent.

``SEC. 2257. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661f.>>  NATIONAL EVALUATION.

    ``From funds reserved under section 2260(b)(1), the Secretary, 
through grants or contracts, shall conduct a national assessment of the 
programs under this part. In developing the criteria for the assessment, 
the Secretary shall receive recommendations from the peer review panel 
convened under section 2253(c)(2).

``SEC. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661g.>> 2258. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.

    ``(a) In General.--From funds reserved under section 2260(b)(2), the 
National Institute for Literacy shall disseminate information on 
scientifically based reading research and information on subgrantee 
projects under section 2255 or 2256 that have proven effective. At a 
minimum, the institute shall disseminate such information to all 
recipients of Federal financial assistance under titles I and VII of 
this Act, the Head Start Act, the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, and the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act.
    ``(b) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the National 
Institute for Literacy--
            ``(1) shall use, to the extent practicable, information 
        networks developed and maintained through other public and 
        private persons, including the Secretary, the National Center 
        for Family Literacy, and the Readline Program;
            ``(2) shall work in conjunction with any panel convened by 
        the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and 
        the Secretary and any panel convened by the Office of 
        Educational
Research and Improvement to assess the current status of research-based 
knowledge on reading development, including the effectiveness of various 
approaches to teaching children to read, with respect to determining the 
criteria by which the National Institute for Literacy judges 
scientifically based reading research and the design of strategies to 
disseminate such information; and
            ``(3) may assist any State educational agency selected to 
        receive a grant under section 2253, and that requests such 
        assistance--
                    ``(A) in determining whether applications submitted 
                under section 2253 meet the requirements of this title 
                relating to scientifically based reading research; and
                    ``(B) in the development of subgrant application 
                forms.

``SEC. 2259. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6661h.>>  STATE EVALUATIONS; PERFORMANCE 
            REPORTS.

    ``(a) State Evaluations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each State educational agency that 
        receives a grant under section 2253 shall evaluate the success 
        of the agency's subgrantees in meeting the purposes of this 
        part. At a minimum, the evaluation shall measure the extent to 
        which students who are the intended beneficiaries of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-406]]

        subgrants made by the agency have improved their reading skills.
            ``(2) Contract.--A State educational agency shall carry out 
        the evaluation under this subsection by entering into a contract 
        with an entity that conducts scientifically based reading 
        research, under which contract the entity will perform the 
        evaluation.
            ``(3) Submission.--A State educational agency shall submit 
        the findings from the evaluation under this subsection to the 
        Secretary. The Secretary shall submit a summary of the findings 
        from the evaluations under this subsection and the national 
        assessment conducted under section 2257 to the appropriate 
        committees of the Congress, including the Committee on Education 
        and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

    ``(b) Performance Reports.--A State educational agency that receives 
a grant under section 2253 shall submit performance reports to the 
Secretary pursuant to a schedule to be determined by the Secretary, but 
not more frequently than annually. Such reports shall include--
            ``(1) with respect to subgrants under section 2255, the 
        program or programs of reading instruction, based on 
        scientifically based reading research, selected by subgrantees;
            ``(2) the results of use of the evaluation referred to in 
        section 2253(b)(2)(E)(iv); and
            ``(3) a description of the subgrantees receiving funds under 
        this part.

``SEC. 2260. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS; <<NOTE: 20 USC 
            6661i.>> RESERVATIONS FROM APPROPRIATIONS; SUNSET.

    ``(a) Authorizations.--
            ``(1) FY 1999.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this part and section 1202(c) $260,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 1999.
            ``(2) FY 2000.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this part and section 1202(c) $260,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2000.

    ``(b) Reservations.--From each of the amounts appropriated under 
subsection (a) for a fiscal year, the Secretary--
            ``(1) shall reserve 1.5 percent to carry out section 
        2257(a);
            ``(2) shall reserve $5,000,000 to carry out section 2258; 
        and
            ``(3) shall reserve $10,000,000 to carry out section 
        1202(c).

    ``(c) Sunset.--Notwithstanding section 422(a) of the General 
Education Provisions Act, this part is not subject to extension under 
such section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 2003 of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6603) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``title,'' and 
                inserting ``title (other than part C),''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``part C'' and 
                inserting ``part D''.
            (2) Priority for professional development in mathematics and 
        science.--Section 2206 of the Elementary and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-407]]

        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6646) is amended by 
        inserting ``(other than part C)'' after ``for this title'' each 
        place such term appears.
            (3) Reporting and accountability.--Section 2401 of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6701) 
        is amended by striking ``under this part'' each place such term 
        appears and inserting ``under this title (other than part C)''.
            (4) Definitions.--Section 2402 of the Elementary  and  
        Secondary  Education  <<NOTE: 20 USC 6702.>> Act  of  1965 (20  
        U.S.C.  6701)  is  amended  by striking ``this part--'' and 
        inserting ``this title (other than part C)--''.
            (5) General definitions.--Section 14101(10)(C) of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        8801(10)(C)) is amended by striking ``part C'' and inserting 
        ``part D''.
            (6) Participation by private school children and teachers.--
        Section 14503(b)(1)(B) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8893(b)(1)(B)) is amended by striking 
        ``part C'' and inserting ``part D''.

     SUBTITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO EVEN START FAMILY LITERACY PROGRAMS

SEC. 201. RESERVATION FOR GRANTS.

    Section 1202(c) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6362(c)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Reservation for Grants.--
            ``(1) Grants authorized.--From funds reserved under section 
        2260(b)(3), the Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive 
        basis, to States to enable such States to plan and implement 
        statewide family literacy initiatives to coordinate and, where 
        appropriate, integrate existing Federal, State, and local 
        literacy resources consistent with the purposes of this part. 
        Such coordination and integration shall include funds available 
        under the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, the Head 
        Start Act, this part, part A of this title, and part A of title 
        IV of the Social Security Act.
            ``(2) Consortia.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.--To receive a grant under this 
                subsection, a State shall establish a consortium of 
                State-level programs under the following laws:
                          ``(i) This title (other than part D).
                          ``(ii) The Head Start Act.
                          ``(iii) The Adult Education and Family 
                      Literacy Act.
                          ``(iv) All other State-funded preschool 
                      programs and programs providing literacy services 
                      to adults.
                    ``(B) Plan.--To receive a grant under this 
                subsection, the consortium established by a State shall 
                create a plan to use a portion of the State's resources, 
                derived from the programs referred to in subparagraph 
                (A), to strengthen and expand family literacy services 
                in such State.
                    ``(C) Coordination with part c of title ii.--The 
                consortium shall coordinate its activities with the 
                activities of the reading and literacy partnership for 
                the State

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-408]]

                established under section 2253(d), if the State 
                educational agency receives a grant under section 2253.
            ``(3) Reading instruction.--Statewide family literacy 
        initiatives implemented under this subsection shall base reading 
        instruction on scientifically based reading research (as such 
        term is defined in section 2252).
            ``(4) Technical assistance.--The Secretary shall provide, 
        directly or through a grant or contract with an organization 
        with experience in the development and operation of successful 
        family literacy services, technical assistance to States 
        receiving a grant under this subsection.
            ``(5) Matching requirement.--The Secretary shall not make a 
        grant to a State under this subsection unless the State agrees 
        that, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the eligible 
        consortium in carrying out the activities for which the grant 
        was awarded, the State will make available non-Federal 
        contributions in an amount equal to not less than the Federal 
        funds provided under the grant.''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 1202(e) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6362(e)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) the term `family literacy services' means services 
        provided to participants on a voluntary basis that are of 
        sufficient intensity in terms of hours, and of sufficient 
        duration, to make sustainable changes in a family, and that 
        integrate all of the following activities:
                    ``(A) Interactive literacy activities between 
                parents and their children.
                    ``(B) Training for parents regarding how to be the 
                primary teacher for their children and full partners in 
                the education of their children.
                    ``(C) Parent literacy training that leads to 
                economic self-sufficiency.
                    ``(D) An age-appropriate education to prepare 
                children for success in school and life experiences.

SEC. 203. EVALUATION.

    Section 1209 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 6369) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) to provide States and eligible entities receiving a 
        subgrant under this part, directly or through a grant or 
        contract with an organization with experience in the development 
        and operation of successful family literacy services, technical 
        assistance to ensure local evaluations undertaken under section 
        1205(10) provide accurate information on the effectiveness of 
        programs assisted under this part.''.

SEC. 204. INDICATORS OF PROGRAM QUALITY.

    (a) In General.--The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
is amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-409]]

             <<NOTE: 20 USC 6370.>> (1) by redesignating section 1210 as 
        section 1212; and
            (2) by inserting after section 1209 the following:

<<NOTE: 20 USC 6369a.>> ``SEC. 1210. INDICATORS OF PROGRAM QUALITY.

    ``Each State receiving funds under this part shall develop, based on 
the best available research and evaluation data, indicators of program 
quality for programs assisted under this part. Such indicators shall be 
used to monitor, evaluate, and improve such programs within the State. 
Such indicators shall include the following:
            ``(1) With respect to eligible participants in a program who 
        are adults--
                    ``(A) achievement in the areas of reading, writing, 
                English language acquisition, problem solving, and 
                numeracy;
                    ``(B) receipt of a high school diploma or a general 
                equivalency diploma;
                    ``(C) entry into a postsecondary school, job 
                retraining program, or employment or career advancement, 
                including the military; and
                    ``(D) such other indicators as the State may 
                develop.
            ``(2) With respect to eligible participants in a program who 
        are children--
                    ``(A) improvement in ability to read on grade level 
                or reading readiness;
                    ``(B) school attendance;
                    ``(C) grade retention and promotion; and
                    ``(D) such other indicators as the State may 
                develop.''.

    (b) State Level Activities.--Section 1203(a) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6363(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) carrying out section 1210.''.

    (c) Award of Subgrants.--Paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1208(b) 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6368) 
are amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Continuing eligibility.--In awarding subgrant funds to 
        continue a program under this part for the second, third, or 
        fourth year, the State educational agency shall evaluate the 
        program based on the indicators of program quality developed by 
        the State under section 1210. Such evaluation shall take place 
        after the conclusion of the startup period, if any.
            ``(4) Insufficient progress.--The State educational agency 
        may refuse to award subgrant funds if such agency finds that the 
        eligible entity has not sufficiently improved the performance of 
        the program, as evaluated based on the indicators of program 
        quality developed by the State under section 1210, after--
                    ``(A) providing technical assistance to the eligible 
                entity; and
                    ``(B) affording the eligible entity notice and an 
                opportunity for a hearing.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-410]]

SEC. 205. RESEARCH.

    The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended by 
section 204 of this Act, is further amended by inserting after section 
1210 the following:

``SEC. 1211. <<NOTE: 20 USC 6369b.>>  RESEARCH.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out, through grant or 
contract, research into the components of successful family literacy 
services, to use--
            ``(1) to improve the quality of existing programs assisted 
        under this part or other family literacy programs carried out 
        under this Act or the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act; 
        and
            ``(2) to develop models for new programs to be carried out 
        under this Act or the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act.

    ``(b) Dissemination.--The National Institute for Literacy shall 
disseminate, pursuant to section 2258, the results of the research 
described in subsection (a) to States and recipients of subgrants under 
this part.''.

                          SUBTITLE III--REPEALS

SEC. 301. REPEAL OF CERTAIN UNFUNDED EDUCATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Community School Partnerships.--The Community School Partnership 
Act (contained in part B of title V of the Improving America's Schools 
Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 1070 note) is repealed.
    (b) Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and 
Improvement Act of 1994.--Section 941(j) of the Educational Research, 
Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 
6041(j)) is repealed.
    (c) Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.--The following 
provisions are repealed:
            (1) Innovative elementary school transition projects.--
        Section 1503 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 6493).
            (2) De lugo territorial education improvement program.--Part 
        H of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 8221 et seq.).
            (3) Extended time for learning and longer school year.--Part 
        L of title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 8351).
            (4) Territorial assistance.--Part M of title X of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8371).

    (d) Family and Community Endeavor Schools.--The Family and Community 
Endeavor Schools Act (42 U.S.C. 13792) is repealed.
    (e) Goals 2000: Educate America Act.--Subsections (b) and (d)(1) of 
section 601 of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (20 U.S.C. 5951) are 
repealed.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-411]]

            SUBTITLE IV--TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 401. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998.

            (1) <<NOTE: 29 USC 2821.>> Section 111(c) of the Workforce 
        Investment Act of 1998 is amended by striking ``Chairman'' and 
        inserting ``Chairperson''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 29 USC 2822.>> Section 112(c)(1) of such Act is 
        amended by striking ``; and'' and inserting ``; or''.
            (3) <<NOTE: 29 USC 2831.>>  Section 116(a)(3)(D)(ii)(I)(aa) 
        of such Act is amended by striking ``; or'' and inserting ``; 
        and''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2832.>> (4) Section 117 of such Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (f)(1)(D), by striking ``State'' 
                and inserting ``Governor''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i)(1)(D)(ii), by striking 
                subclause (II), and inserting the following:
                          ``(II) other representatives of employees in 
                      the local area (for a local area in which no 
                      employees are represented by such 
                      organizations).''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2864.>> (5) Section 134(d)(4)(F) of such Act 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(iii) Individual training accounts.--An 
                      individual who seeks training services and who is 
                      eligible pursuant to subparagraph (A), may, in 
                      consultation with a case manager, select an 
                      eligible provider of training services from the 
                      list or identifying information for providers 
                      described in clause (ii)(I). Upon such selection, 
                      the one-stop operator involved shall, to the 
                      extent practicable, refer such individual to the 
                      eligible provider of training services, and 
                      arrange for payment for such services through an 
                      individual training account.''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2899.>> (6) Section 159 of such Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsections (c)(1)(G) and (d)(4), by striking 
                ``post-secondary'' and inserting ``postsecondary''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``containing'' 
                and inserting ``containing,''.
            (7) <<NOTE: 29 USC 2911.>>  Section 166(h)(3)(A) of such Act 
        is amended by striking ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting 
        ``subparagraph (B)''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2912.>> (8) Section 167(d) of such Act is 
        amended by inserting ``and section 127(b)(1)(A)(iii)'' after 
        ``this section''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2915.>> (9) Section 170(a)(1) of such Act is 
        amended by striking ``carry out'' and inserting ``carrying 
        out''.
            (10) Section 170(b)(2) of such Act is amended by striking 
        ``174(b)'' and inserting ``173(b)''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2916.>> (11) Section 171(b)(2) of such Act 
        is amended by striking ``only on a competitive'' and all that 
        follows through the period and inserting ``in accordance with 
        generally applicable Federal requirements.''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2918.>> (12) Section 173(a)(2) of such Act 
        is amended by striking ``the Robert'' and inserting ``The 
        Robert''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2939.>> (13) Section 189(i)(1) of such Act 
        is amended by striking ``1997 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 
        3009-234)'' and inserting ``1998 (Public Law 105-78; 111 Stat. 
        1467).
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2942.>> (14) Paragraphs (2) and (3) of 
        section 192(a) of such Act are amended by striking ``), to'' and 
        inserting ``) to''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-412]]

             <<NOTE: 29 USC 2701 note.>> (15) Section 334(b) of such Act 
        is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(2) Date.--The appointments of the members of the 
        Commission shall be made by February 1, 1999.''.
            (16) <<NOTE: 29 USC 760-765.>> Section 405 of such Act is 
        amended by striking ``et seq.),'' and inserting ``et seq.)''.
             <<NOTE: 20 USC 9271.>> (17) Section 501(b)(1) of such Act 
        is amended by adding at the end the following: ``For purposes of 
        this paragraph, the activities and programs described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) shall not be 
        considered to be 2 or more activities or programs for purposes 
        of the unified plan. Such activities or programs shall be 
        considered to be 1 activity or program.''.
             <<NOTE: 20 USC 9275.>> (18) Section 505 of such Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``in this Act'' 
                and inserting ``under title I, II, or III or this 
                title''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``under this 
                Act'' each place it appears and inserting ``under title 
                I, II, or III or this title''.
             <<NOTE: 20 USC 9276.>> (19) Section 506(d) of such Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (b)'' 
                and inserting ``subsection (c)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) by inserting ``planning authorized under'' 
                      after ``carry out'' each place that such appears; 
                      and
                          (ii) by striking ``the purposes'' and 
                      inserting ``the planning purposes''.

SEC. 402. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE REHABILITATION ACT OF 1973.

    (a) Redesignation.--
            (1) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 <<NOTE: 29 USC 705-
        718.>> (as amended by title IV of the Workforce Investment Act 
        of 1998) is further amended by redesignating sections 6 through 
        19 as sections 7, 8, and 10 through 21, respectively.
            (2) The table of contents for the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
        (as amended by section 403 of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998) is further amended by striking the items relating to 
        sections 6 through 19 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 7. Definitions.
``Sec. 8. Allotment percentage.
``Sec. 10. Nonduplication.
``Sec. 11. Application of other laws.
``Sec. 12. Administration of the Act.
``Sec. 13. Reports.
``Sec. 14. Evaluation.
``Sec. 15. Information clearinghouse.
``Sec. 16. Transfer of funds.
``Sec. 17. State administration.
``Sec. 18. Review of applications.
``Sec. 19. Carryover.
``Sec. 20. Client assistance information.
``Sec. 21. Traditionally underserved populations.''.

    (b) Section Headings.--
            (1) Section 1 of such Act (as so amended) is further amended 
        by striking the section heading and all that <<NOTE: 29 USC 701 
        note.>> follows through ``Short Title.--'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    ``(a) Short Title.--''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-413]]

             <<NOTE: 29 USC 701.>> (2) Section 2 of such Act (as so 
        amended) is further amended by striking the section heading and 
        all that follows through ``Findings.--'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE; POLICY.

    ``(a) Findings.--''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 705.>> (3) Section 7 of such Act (as so 
        amended and redesignated in subsection (a)) is further amended 
        by striking the section heading and all that follows through 
        ``(1) The term'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    ``For the purposes of this Act:
            ``(1) Administrative costs.--The term''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 716.>> (4) Section 19 of such Act (as so 
        amended and redesignated in subsection (a)) is further amended 
        by striking the section heading and all that follows through 
        ``In General.--'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 19. CARRYOVER.

    ``(a) In General.--''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 717.>> (5) Section 20 of such Act (as so 
        amended and redesignated in subsection (a)) is further amended 
        by striking the section heading and all that follows through 
        ``All'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 20. CLIENT ASSISTANCE INFORMATION.

    ``All''.
            (6) <<NOTE: 29 USC 718.>> Section 21 of such Act (as so 
        amended and redesignated in subsection (a)) is further amended 
        by striking the section heading and all that follows through 
        ``Findings.--'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 21. TRADITIONALLY UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.

    ``(a) Findings.--''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 730. ``state allotments>> (7) Section 110 of 
        such Act (as so amended) is further amended by striking the 
        section heading and all that follows through ``(a)(1) Subject'' 
                          and inserting the following:

    ``Sec. 110. (a)(1) Subject''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 731. ``payments to states>> (8) Section 111 
        of such Act (as so amended) is further amended by striking the 
        section heading and all that follows through ``(a)(1) Except'' 
                          and inserting the following:

    ``Sec. 111. (a)(1) Except''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 732. ``client assistance program>> (9) 
        Section 112 of such Act (as so amended) is further amended by 
        striking the section heading and all that follows through ``(a) 
                       From'' and inserting the following:

    ``Sec. 112. (a) From''.
             <<NOTE: 29 USC 741. ``vocational rehabilitation services 
        grants>> (10) Section 121 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended by striking the section heading and all that follows 
        through ``(a) The'' and inserting the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-414]]

    ``Sec. 121. (a) The''.
            (11) Section 205 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 765.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``Establishment.--'' and inserting 
        the following:

``SEC. 205. REHABILITATION RESEARCH ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    ``(a) Establishment.--''.
            (12) Section 621 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795g.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``It'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 621. PURPOSE.

    ``It''.
            (13) Section 622 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795h.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``In General.--'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 622. ALLOTMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--''.
            (14) Section 623 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795i.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``Funds provided under this part 
        may'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 623. AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES.

    ``Funds provided under this part may''.
            (15) Section 624 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795j.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``An'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 624. ELIGIBILITY.

    ``An''.
            (16) Section 625 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795k.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``State Plan Supplements.--'' and 
        inserting the following:

``SEC. 625. STATE PLAN.

    ``(a) State Plan Supplements.--''.
            (17) Section 626 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795l.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``Each'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 626. RESTRICTION.

    ``Each''.
            (18) Section 627 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795m.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``Supported Employment Services.--
        '' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 627. SAVINGS PROVISION.

    ``(a) Supported Employment Services.--''.
            (19) Section 628 of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 795n.>> by striking the section heading 
        and all that follows through ``There'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 628. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-415]]

    (c) Other Amendments.--
            (1) Section 7 of such Act (as so amended and redesignated in 
        subsection <<NOTE: 29 USC 705.>> (a)) is further amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``objectives, 
                nature,'' and inserting ``nature'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (7);
                    (C) in paragraph (16)(A)(iii), by striking 
                ``client'' and inserting ``eligible individual''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (36)(C), by striking 
                ``rehabilitation objectives'' and inserting ``employment 
                outcome''.
            (2) Section 10 of such Act (as so amended and redesignated 
        in subsection <<NOTE: 29 USC 707.>> (a)) is further amended--
                    (A) by striking ``disregarded: (1)'' and inserting 
                the following: ``disregarded--
            ``(1)'';
                    (B) by striking ``(2)'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2)''; and
                    (C) by striking ``No payment'' and inserting the 
                following:

``No payment''.
            (3) The second and third sentences of section 21(a)(3) of 
        such Act (as so amended and redesignated in subsection (a)) are 
        further amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 718.>> by striking ``are'' and 
        inserting ``is''.
            (4) Section 101(a) of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended-- <<NOTE: 29 USC 721.>> 
                    (A) in paragraph (18)(C), by striking ``will be 
                utilized'' and inserting ``were utilized during the 
                preceding year''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (21)(A)(i)(II)(bb), by striking 
                ``Commission'' and inserting ``commission''.
            (5) Section 102(c)(5)(F) (as so amended) is further 
        amended-- <<NOTE: 29 USC 722.>> 
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end 
                thereof;
                    (B) in clause (iii), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(iv) not delegate the responsibility for 
                      making the final decision to any officer or 
                      employee of the designated State unit.''.
            (6) Section 105(b) of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended-- <<NOTE: 29 USC 725.>> 
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                          (i) by striking ``Governor'' the first place 
                      it appears and inserting ``Governor or, in the 
                      case of a State that, under State law, vests 
                      authority for the administration of the activities 
                      carried out under this Act in an entity other than 
                      the Governor (such as one or more houses of the 
                      State legislature or an independent board), the 
                      chief officer of that entity''; and
                          (ii) in the second and third sentences, by 
                      striking ``Governor'' and inserting ``appointing 
                      authority'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(A)(i), by striking ``section 
                7(20)(A)'' and inserting ``section 7(20)(B)'';
                    (C) in paragraph (5)(B)--
                          (i) in the subparagraph heading, by striking 
                      ``governor'' and inserting ``chief executive 
                      officer''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-416]]

                          (ii) by striking ``Governor shall'' and 
                      inserting ``appointing authority described in 
                      paragraph (3) shall''; and
                    (D) in paragraphs (6)(A)(ii) and (7)(B), by striking 
                ``Governor'' and inserting ``appointing authority 
                described in paragraph (3)''.
            (7) Section 705(b) of such Act (as so amended) is further 
        amended-- <<NOTE: 29 USC 769d.>> 
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking ``Governor'' the first place 
                      it appears and inserting ``Governor or, in the 
                      case of a State that, under State law, vests 
                      authority for the administration of the activities 
                      carried out under this Act in an entity other than 
                      the Governor (such as one or more houses of the 
                      State legislature or an independent board), the 
                      chief officer of that entity''; and
                          (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                      ``Governor'' and inserting ``appointing 
                      authority'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5)(B)--
                          (i) in the subparagraph heading, by striking 
                      ``governor'' and inserting ``chief executive 
                      officer''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``Governor shall'' and 
                      inserting ``appointing authority described in 
                      paragraph (3) shall''; and
                    (C) in paragraphs (6)(A)(ii) and (7)(B), by striking 
                ``Governor'' and inserting ``appointing authority 
                described in paragraph (3)''.

SEC. 403. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS.

    (a) Wagner-Peyser Act.--
            (1) In general.--Section 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (as 
        added by section 309 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998) 
        is <<NOTE: 29 USC 49l-2.>> amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2)(A)(i), by striking ``of 
                this section'' the second place it appears; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2)(G), by striking 
                ``complementary'' and inserting ``complementarity''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 29 USC 49l-2 note.>> Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by paragraph (1) take effect on July 2, 1999.

    (b) Older Americans Act of 1965.--Subparagraph (Q) of section 
502(b)(1) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(b)(1)) (as 
added by section 323 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998) is amended 
by aligning the margins of the subparagraph with the margins of 
subparagraph (P) of such section.

SEC. 404. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS REGARDING ADULT EDUCATION.

    (a) References to Title.--The matter preceding paragraph (1) of 
section 203, and sections 204 and 205, of the Adult Education and Family 
Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9202, 9203, and 9204) are each amended by 
striking ``this subtitle'' and inserting ``this title''.
    (b) Qualifying Adult.--Section 211(d)(1) of the Adult Education and 
Family Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9211(d)(1)) is amended by striking ``, 
but less than 61 years of age''.
    (c) Levels of Performance.--Section 212(b)(3)(A)(vi) of the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9212(b)(3)(A)(vi)) is 
amended by striking ``136(j)'' and inserting ``136(i)(1)''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-417]]

    (d) Corrections Education.--Section 225(a) of the Adult Education 
and Family Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9225) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``or education'' and 
        inserting ``and education''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``with'' and inserting 
        ``within''.

    (e) National Leadership Activities.--Section 243(2)(B) of the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act (20 U.S.C. 9253(2)(B)) is amended by 
striking ``qualify'' and inserting ``quality''.
    (f) Incentive Grants.--Section 503(a) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 9273(a)) is amended by striking ``expected'' and 
inserting ``adjusted''.

SEC. 405. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) References to Section 204 of the Immigration Reform and Control 
Act of 1986.--The table of contents for the Immigration Reform and 
Control Act of 1986 is amended by striking the item relating to section 
204 of such Act.
    (b) References to Title II of Public Law 95-250.--Section 103 of 
Public Law 95-250 (16 U.S.C. 79l) is amended--
            (1) by striking the second sentence of subsection (a); and
            (2) by striking the second sentence of subsection (b).

    (c) References to Subtitle C of Title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act.--
            (1) Table of contents relating to subtitle c of title vii.--
        The table of contents of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11421 et seq.) is amended by striking 
        the
items relating to sections 731 through 737, and sections 739 through 
741, of such Act.
            (2) Title vii.--Title VII of such Act is amended by 
        inserting before section 738 the following:

             ``Subtitle C--Job Training for the Homeless''.

            (3) Title 31, united states code.--Section 6703(a) of title 
        31, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (15); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (16) through (19) as 
                paragraphs (15) through (18), respectively.

    (d) References to Job Training Partnership Act Prior To Repeal.--
            (1) Title 5, united states code.--Section 3502(d) of title 
        5, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause 
                      (i) and inserting the following:
                    ``(i) the appropriate State dislocated worker unit 
                or office (referred to in section 311(b)(2) of the Job 
                Training Partnership Act), or the State or entity 
                designated by the State to carry out rapid response 
                activities under section 134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998; and''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking 
                      ``other services under the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act'' and inserting ``other services 
                      under the Job Training Partnership Act or under 
                      title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''; 
                      and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-418]]

                    (B) in paragraph (4), in the second sentence, by 
                striking ``Secretary of Labor on matters relating to the 
                Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``Secretary 
                of Labor on matters relating to the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
                Act of 1998''.
            (2) Food stamp act of 1977.--
                    (A) Section 5.--Section 5(l) of the Food Stamp Act 
                of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(l)) is amended by striking 
                ``Notwithstanding section 142(b) of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1552(b)), earnings to 
                individuals participating in on-the-job training 
                programs under section 204(b)(1)(C) or section 
                264(c)(1)(A) of the Job Training Partnership Act'' and 
                inserting ``Notwithstanding section 142(b) of the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or section 181(a)(2) of the 
                Workforce Investment Act of 1998, earnings to 
                individuals participating in on-the-job training 
                programs under section 204(b)(1)(C) or 264(c)(1)(A) of 
                the Job Training Partnership Act or in on-the-job 
                training under title I of the Workforce Investment Act 
                of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 6.--Section 6 of the Food Stamp Act of 
                1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (d)(4)(M), by striking ``the 
                      State public employment offices and agencies 
                      operating programs under the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the State public 
                      employment offices and agencies operating programs 
                      under the Job Training Partnership Act or of the 
                      State public employment offices and other State 
                      agencies and providers carrying out activities 
                      under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                      1998'';
                          (ii) in subsection (e)(3), by striking 
                      subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) a program under the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                1998;''; and
                          (iii) in subsection (o)(1)(A), by striking 
                      ``Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et 
                      seq.)'' and inserting ``Job Training Partnership 
                      Act or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                      1998''.
                    (C) Section 17.--The second sentence of section 
                17(b)(2) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
                2026(b)(2)) is amended--
                          (i) by striking ``to accept an offer of 
                      employment from a political subdivision or a prime 
                      sponsor pursuant to the Comprehensive Employment 
                      and Training Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 
                      812),'' and inserting ``to accept an offer of 
                      employment from a political subdivision or 
                      provider pursuant to a program carried out under 
                      the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``: Provided, That all of the 
                      political subdivision's'' and all that follows and 
                      inserting ``, if all of the jobs supported under 
                      the program have been made available to 
                      participants in the program before the political 
                      subdivision or provider providing the jobs extends 
                      an offer of employment under this paragraph, and 
                      if the political subdivision or provider, in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-419]]

                      employing the person, complies with the 
                      requirements of Federal law that relate to the 
                      program.''.
            (3) Personal responsibility and work opportunity 
        reconciliation act of 1996.--
                    (A) Section 403(c)(2)(K) of the Personal 
                Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
                of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1613(c)(2)(K)) is amended by striking 
                ``Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``Job 
                Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 423(d)(11) of the Personal 
                Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
                of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1183a note) is amended by striking 
                ``Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``Job 
                Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
            (4) Immigration and nationality act.--Section 245A(h)(4)(F) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(h)(4)(F)) 
        is amended by striking ``The Job Training Partnership Act.'' and 
        inserting ``The Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
        Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
            (5) Refugee education assistance act of 1980.--Section 
        402(a)(4) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (8 
        U.S.C. 1522 note) is amended by striking ``the Comprehensive 
        Employment and Training Act of 1973'' and inserting ``the Job 
        Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998''.
            (6) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1991.--Section 4003(5)(C) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2391 note) is amended by 
        inserting before the period the following: ``, as in effect on 
        the day before the date of enactment of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998''.
            (7) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1993.--
                    (A) Section 3161.--Section 3161(c)(6) of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 
                (42 U.S.C. 7274h(c)(6)) is amended by striking 
                subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) programs carried out by the Secretary of Labor 
                under the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                Workforce Investment Act of 1998;''.
                    (B) Section 4461.--Section 4461(1) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 1143 note) is amended by striking ``The Job 
                Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).'' and 
                inserting ``The Job Training Partnership Act or title I 
                of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
                    (C) Section 4471.--Section 4471 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 2501 note) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the 
                      State dislocated'' and all that follows through 
                      ``and the chief'' and inserting ``the State 
                      dislocated worker unit or office referred to in 
                      section 311(b)(2) of the Job Training Partnership 
                      Act, or the State or entity designated by the 
                      State to carry out rapid response activities under 
                      section 134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment 
                      Act of 1998, and the chief'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-420]]

                          (ii) in subsection (d)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                striking ``for training, adjustment 
                                assistance, and employment services'' 
                                and all that follows through ``except 
                                where'' and inserting ``for training, 
                                adjustment assistance, and employment 
                                services under section 325 or 325A of 
                                the Job Training Partnership Act or to 
                                participate in employment and training 
                                activities carried out under title I of 
                                the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, 
                                except in a case in which''; and
                                    (II) by striking the second 
                                sentence; and
                          (iii) in subsection (e), by striking ``for 
                      training,'' and all that follows through 
                      ``beginning'' and inserting ``, on the basis of 
                      any related reduction in funding under the 
                      contract, for training, adjustment assistance, and 
                      employment services under section 325 or 325A of 
                      the Job Training Partnership Act or to participate 
                      in employment and training activities under title 
                      I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, 
                      beginning''.
                    (D) Section 4492.--Section 4492(b) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 1143 note) is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
            (8) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1994.--Section 1333(c)(2)(B) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (10 U.S.C. 2701 note) is 
        amended by striking ``Private industry councils (as described in 
        section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 
        1512)).'' and inserting ``Private industry councils as described 
        in section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act or local 
        workforce investment boards established under section 117 of the 
        Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
            (9) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1998.--Section 2824(c)(5) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended by 
        striking ``Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``Job 
        Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998''.
            (10) Small business act.--The fourth sentence of section 
        7(j)(13)(E) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(E)) 
        is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act (29 
        U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' and inserting ``the Job Training 
        Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998''.
            (11) Employment act of 1946.--Section 4(f)(2)(B) of the 
        Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1022a(f)(2)(B)) is amended by 
        striking ``and include these in the annual Employment and 
        Training Report of the President required under section 705(a) 
        of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act of 1973 
        (hereinafter in this Act referred to as `CETA')'' and inserting 
        ``and prepare and submit to the President an annual report 
        containing the recommendations''.
            (12) Full employment and balanced growth act of 1978.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-421]]

                    (A) Section 206.--Section 206 of the Full Employment 
                and Balanced Growth Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3116) is 
                amended--
                          (i) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                paragraph (1), by striking ``CETA'' and 
                                inserting ``the Job Training Partnership 
                                Act and title I of the Workforce 
                                Investment Act of 1998''; and
                                    (II) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                                ``(including use of section 110 of CETA 
                                when necessary)''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (c)(1), by striking 
                      ``CETA'' and inserting ``activities carried out 
                      under the Job Training Partnership Act or title I 
                      of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 401.--Section 401(d) of the Full 
                Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 
                3151(d)) is amended by striking ``include, in the annual 
                Employment and Training Report of the President provided 
                under section 705(a) of CETA,'' and inserting ``include, 
                in the annual report referred to in section 4(f)(2)(B) 
                of the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
                1022a(f)(2)(B)),''.
            (13) Title 18, united states code.--Subsections (a), (b), 
        and (c) of section 665 of title 18, United States Code are 
        amended by striking ``the Comprehensive Employment and Training 
        Act or the Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the 
        Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
        Investment Act of 1998''.
            (14) Trade act of 1974.--
                    (A) Section 236.--Section 236(a)(5)(B) of the Trade 
                Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296(a)(5)(B)) is amended by 
                striking ``section 303 of the Job Training Partnership 
                Act'' and inserting ``section 303 of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
                Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 239.--Section 239(e) of the Trade Act of 
                1974 (19 U.S.C. 2311(e)) is amended by striking ``under 
                title III of the Job Training Partnership Act'' and 
                inserting ``under title III of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
                Act of 1998''.
            (15) Higher education act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 418a.--Subsections (b)(1)(B)(ii) and 
                (c)(1)(A) of section 418A of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070d-2) are amended by striking 
                ``section 402 of the Job Training Partnership Act'' and 
                inserting ``section 402 of the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or section 167 of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                1998''.
                    (B) Section 480.--Section 480(b)(14) of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(b)(14)) is 
                amended by striking ``Job Training Partnership Act 
                noneducational benefits'' and inserting ``Job Training 
                Partnership Act noneducational benefits or benefits 
                received through participation in employment and 
                training activities under title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
            (16) Department of education organization act.--Subsection 
        (a) of section 302 of the Department of Education Organization 
        Act (20 U.S.C. 3443(a)) is amended by striking ``under section 
        303(c)(2) of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act'' and 
        inserting ``relating to such education''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-422]]

            (17) National skill standards act of 1994.--
                    (A) Section 504.--Section 504(c)(3) of the National 
                Skill Standards Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 5934(c)(3)) is 
                amended by striking ``the Capacity Building and 
                Information and Dissemination Network established under 
                section 453(b) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 
                U.S.C. 1733(b)) and''.
                    (B) Section 508.--Section 508(1) of the National 
                Skill Standards Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 5938(1)) is 
                amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Community-based organization.--The term `community-
        based organization' means a private nonprofit organization that 
        is representative of a community or a significant segment of a 
        community and that has demonstrated expertise and effectiveness 
        in the field of workforce investment.''.
            (18) Elementary and secondary education act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 1205.--Section 1205(8)(B) of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6365(8)(B)) is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 1414.--Section 1414(c)(8) of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6434(c)(8)) is amended by striking ``programs 
                under the Job Training Partnership Act,'' and inserting 
                ``programs under the Job Training Partnership Act or 
                title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''.
                    (C) Section 1423.--Section 1423(9) of the Elementary 
                and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6453(9)) 
                is amended by striking ``programs under the Job Training 
                and Partnership Act'' and inserting ``programs under the 
                Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (D) Section 1425.--Section 1425(9) of the Elementary 
                and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6455(9)) 
                is amended by striking ``, such as funds under the Job 
                Training Partnership Act,'' and inserting ``, such as 
                funds made available under the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                1998,''.
            (19) District of columbia school reform act of 1995.--
        Section 2604(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the District of Columbia School 
        Reform Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321-145) is 
        amended by striking ``Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 
        1501 et seq.)'' and inserting ``Job Training Partnership Act or 
        title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (20) Freedom support act.--The last sentence of section 505 
        of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5855) is amended by 
        striking ``, through the Defense Conversion'' and all that 
        follows through ``or through'' and inserting ``or through''.
            (21) Emergency jobs and unemployment assistance act of 
        1974.--
                    (A) Section 204.--Section 204(b) of the Emergency 
                Jobs and Unemployment Assistance Act of 1974 (26 U.S.C. 
                3304 note) is amended by striking ``designate as an 
                area'' and all that follows and inserting ``designate as 
                an area

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-423]]

                under this section an area that is a service delivery 
                area established under section 101 of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act (except that after local workforce 
                investment areas are designated under section 116 of the 
                Workforce Investment Act of 1998 for the State involved, 
                the corresponding local workforce investment area shall 
                be considered to be the area designated under this 
                section) or a local workforce investment area designated 
                under section 116 of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                1998.''.
                    (B) Section 223.--Section 223 of the Emergency Jobs 
                and Unemployment Assistance Act of 1974 (26 U.S.C. 3304 
                note) is amended--
                          (i) in paragraph (3), by striking ``assistance 
                      provided'' and all that follows and inserting 
                      ``assistance provided under the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                      Investment Act of 1998;''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``funds 
                      provided'' and all that follows and inserting 
                      ``funds provided under the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                      Investment Act of 1998;''.
            (22) Job training reform amendments of 1992.--Section 701 of 
        the Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992 (29 U.S.C. 1501 note) 
        is repealed.
            (23) Public law 98-524.--Section 7 of Public Law 98-524 (29 
        U.S.C. 1551 note) is repealed.
            (24) Veterans' benefits and programs improvement act of 
        1988.--Section 402 of the Veterans' Benefits and Programs 
        Improvement Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``title III of 
                the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1651 et 
                seq.)'' and inserting ``title III of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
                Act of 1998'';
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``Training, in 
                consultation with the office designated or created under 
                section 322(b) of the Job Training Partnership Act,'' 
                and inserting ``Training, in consultation with the unit 
                or office designated or created under section 322(b) of 
                the Job Training Partnership Act or any successor to 
                such unit or office under title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998,''; and
                    (C) in subsection (d)--
                          (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``part 
                      C'' and all that follows through ``; and'' and 
                      inserting ``part C of title IV of the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                      Investment Act of 1998; and''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                      ``Employment and training'' and all that follows 
                      and inserting ``Employment and training activities 
                      for dislocated workers under title III of the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
            (25) Veterans' job training act.--
                    (A) Section 13.--Section 13(b) of the Veterans' Job 
                Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended by 
                striking ``assistance under the Job Training Partnership 
                Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' and inserting 
                ``assistance under the Job Training Partnership Act or 
                title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-424]]

                    (B) Section 14.--Section 14(b)(3)(B)(i)(II) of the 
                Veterans' Job Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is 
                amended by striking ``under part C of title IV of the 
                Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' 
                and inserting ``under part C of title IV the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (C) Section 15.--Section 15(c)(2) of the Veterans' 
                Job Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended--
                          (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``part 
                      C of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                      (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' and inserting ``part C 
                      of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act or 
                      title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''; 
                      and
                          (ii) in the third sentence, by striking 
                      ``title III of that Act'' and inserting ``title 
                      III of the Job Training Partnership Act or title I 
                      of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (26) Worker adjustment and retraining notification act.--
        Section 3(a)(2) of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining 
        Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2102(a)(2)) is amended by striking 
        ``to the State'' and all that follows through ``and the chief'' 
        and inserting ``to the State dislocated worker unit or office 
        (referred to in section 311(b)(2) of the Job Training and 
        Partnership Act), or the State or entity designated by the State 
        to carry out rapid response activities under section 
        134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the 
        chief''.
            (27) Title 31, united states code.--Section 6703(a) of title 
        31, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(4) Programs under title II or IV of the Job Training 
        Partnership Act or under title I of the Workforce Investment Act 
        of 1998.''.
            (28) Veterans' rehabilitation and education amendments of 
        1980.--Section 512 of the Veterans' Rehabilitation and Education 
        Amendments of 1980 (38 U.S.C. 4101 note) is amended by striking 
        ``the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (29 U.S.C. et 
        seq.),'' and inserting ``the Job Training Partnership Act or 
        title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''.
            (29) Title 38, united states code.--
                    (A) Section 4102A.--Section 4102A(d) of title 38, 
                United States Code, is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 4103A.--Section 4103A(c)(4) of title 38, 
                United States Code, is amended by striking ``(including 
                part C of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.))'' and inserting ``including 
                part C of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                and title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (C) Section 4213.--Section 4213 of title 38, United 
                States Code, is amended by striking ``program assisted 
                under the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 
                et seq.),'' and inserting ``program carried out under 
                the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-425]]

            (30) Social security act.--Section 403(a)(5) of Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(5)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(vii)(I), by striking ``(as 
                described in section 103(c) of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act)'' and inserting ``(as described in 
                section 103(c) of the Job Training Partnership Act or 
                defined in section 101 of the Workforce Investment Act 
                of 1998)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (D)--
                          (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``means, with 
                      respect to a service delivery area, the private 
                      industry council (or successor entity) established 
                      for the service delivery area pursuant to the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``means, 
                      with respect to a service delivery area, the 
                      private industry council or local workforce 
                      investment board established for the service 
                      delivery area pursuant to the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                      Investment Area of 1998, as appropriate''; and 
                          (ii) in clause (iii), by striking ``shall have 
                      the meaning given such term (or the successor to 
                      such term) for purposes of the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act'' and inserting ``shall have the 
                      meaning given such term for purposes of the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or shall mean a local 
                      area as defined in section 101 of the Workforce 
                      Investment Act of 1998, as appropriate''.
            (31) United states housing act.--Section 23 of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437u) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking ``the Job 
                Training'' and all that follows through ``or the'' and 
                inserting ``the Job Training Partnership Act or title I 
                of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 or the'';
                    (B) in the first sentence of subsection (f)(2), by 
                striking ``programs under the'' and all that follows 
                through ``and the'' and inserting ``programs under the 
                Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998 or the''; and
                    (C) in subsection (g)--
                          (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``programs 
                      under the'' and all that follows through ``and 
                      the'' and inserting ``programs under the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998 or the''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (3)(H), by striking 
                      ``program under'' and all that follows through 
                      ``and any other'' and inserting ``programs under 
                      the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and any other''.
            (32) Housing act of 1949.--Section 504(c)(3) of the Housing 
        Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1474(c)(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``pursuant to'' and all that follows through ``or the'' and 
        inserting ``pursuant to
the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 or the''.
            (33) Older americans act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 203.--Section 203 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3013) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking the last 
                      sentence and inserting the following: ``In 
                      particular, the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-426]]

                      Secretary of Labor shall consult and cooperate 
                      with the Assistant Secretary in carrying out the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act and title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph 
                      (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
        Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''.
                    (B) Section 502.--Section 502 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (b)(1)(N)(i), by striking 
                      ``the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 
                      et seq.)'' and inserting ``the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act and title I of the Workforce 
                      Investment Act of 1998''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by striking 
                      ``programs carried out under section 124 of the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1534)'' 
                      and inserting ``programs carried out under the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act and title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (C) Section 503.--Section 503(b)(1) of the Older 
                Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056a(b)(1)) is 
                amended--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act and title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998''; and
                          (ii) in the first sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (D) Section 510.--Section 510 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056h) is amended by striking the 
                matter following the section heading and inserting the 
                following:

    ``In the case of projects under this title carried out jointly with 
programs carried out under the Job Training Partnership Act, eligible 
individuals shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of sections 203 
and 204(d)(5)(A) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1603, 1604(d)(5)(A)) that are 
applicable to adults. In the case of projects under this title carried 
out jointly with programs carried out under subtitle B of title I of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998, eligible individuals shall be deemed 
to satisfy the requirements of section 134 of such Act.''.
            (34) Omnibus crime control and safe streets act of 1968.--
        Section 1801(b)(3) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
        Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796ee(b)(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``activities carried out under part B of title IV of the Job 
        Training Partnership Act (relating to Job Corps) (29 U.S.C. 1691 
        et seq.)'' and inserting ``activities carried out under part B 
        of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act or subtitle C of 
        title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (relating to Job 
        Corps)''.
            (35) Environmental programs assistance act of 1984.--The 
        second sentence of section 2(a) of the Environmental Programs 
        Assistance Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 4368a(a)) is amended by 
        striking ``and title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act'' 
        and inserting ``and title IV of the Job Training Partnership

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-427]]

        Act or subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998''.
            (36) Domestic volunteer service act of 1973.--
                    (A) Section 103.--The second sentence of section 
                103(d) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 
                U.S.C. 4953(d)) is amended to read as follows: 
                ``Whenever feasible, such efforts shall be coordinated 
                with an appropriate private industry council established 
                under the Job Training Partnership Act or local 
                workforce investment board established under section 117 
                of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
                    (B) Section 109.--Subsections (c)(2) and (d)(2) of 
                section 109 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
                1973 (42 U.S.C. 4959) is amended by striking 
                ``administrative entities designated to administer job 
                training plans under the Job Training Partnership Act'' 
                and inserting ``administrative entities designated to 
                administer job training plans under the Job Training 
                Partnership Act and eligible providers of employment and 
                training activities under subtitle B of title I of the 
                Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (37) Age discrimination act of 1975.--Section 304(c)(1) of 
        the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6103(c)(1)) is 
        amended by striking ``Except with'' and all that follows through 
        ``nothing'' and inserting ``Nothing''.
            (38) Energy conservation and production act.--Section 
        414(b)(3) of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6864(b)(3)) is amended by striking ``the Comprehensive 
        Employment and Training Act of 1973'' and inserting ``the Job 
        Training Partnership Act or title I of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998''.
            (39) National energy conservation policy act.--Section 233 
        of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 6873) 
        is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act of 1973'' and 
        inserting ``the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
        Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (40) Community economic development act of 1981.--Section 
        617(a)(3) of the Community Economic Development Act of 1981 (42 
        U.S.C. 9806(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``activities such as 
        those described in the Comprehensive Employment and Training 
        Act'' and inserting ``activities such as the activities 
        described in the Job Training Partnership Act or title I of the 
        Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (41) Stewart b. mckinney homeless assistance act.--Section 
        103(b)(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 11302(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
        Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the Job Training Partnership 
        Act or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
            (42) National and community service act of 1990.--
                    (A) Section 177.--Section 177(d) of the National and 
                Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12637(d)) is 
                amended to read as follows:

    ``(d) Treatment of Benefits.--Allowances, earnings, and payments to 
individuals participating in programs that receive assistance under this 
title shall not be considered to be income for the purposes of 
determining eligibility for and the amount of income

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-428]]

transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or federally 
assisted program based on need, other than as provided under the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).''.
                    (B) Section 198C.--Section 198C of the National and 
                Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12653c) is 
                amended--
                          (i) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``a 
                      military installation described in section 
                      325(e)(1) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 
                      U.S.C. 1662d(e)(1)).'' and inserting ``a military 
                      installation being closed or realigned under--
                    ``(A) the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act 
                of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of division B of Public 
                Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note); and
                    ``(B) title II of the Defense Authorization 
                Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act (Public 
                Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (e)(1)(B), by striking 
                      clause (iii) and inserting the following:
                    ``(iii) an eligible youth described in section 423 
                of the Job Training Partnership Act or an individual 
                described in section 144 of the Workforce Investment Act 
                of 1998.''.
                    (C) Section 199L.--Section 199L(a) of the National 
                and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12655m(a)) 
                is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership 
                Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' and inserting ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
            (43) Cranston-gonzalez national affordable housing act.--
                    (A) Section 454.--Subparagraphs (H) and (M) of 
                subsection (c)(2), and subsection (d)(7), of section 454 
                of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 12899c) are amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act'' and inserting ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998''.
                    (B) Section 456.--The first sentence of section 
                456(e) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12899e(e)) is amended by 
                inserting ``(as in effect on the day before the date of 
                enactment of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998)'' 
                after ``the Job Training Partnership Act'' each place it 
                appears.
            (44) Violent crime control and law enforcement act of 
        1994.--Section 31113(a)(4)(C) of the Violent Crime Control and 
        Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13823(a)(4)(C)) is 
        amended by striking ``authorized under the Job Training 
        Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.)'' and inserting 
        ``authorized under the Job Training Partnership Act or title I 
        of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.

    (e) Other References to Title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act.--
            (1) Table of contents.--The table of contents of the Stewart 
        B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11421 et seq.) is 
        amended by striking the items relating to title VII of such Act, 
        except the items relating to the title heading, and subtitles B 
        and C, of such title.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-429]]

            (2) Title vii.--The Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
        Act (as amended by section 199(b)(1) of the Workforce Investment 
        Act of 1998) is further amended by inserting before subtitle B 
        (relating to education for homeless children and families) the 
        following:

                ``SUBTITLE VII--EDUCATION AND TRAINING''.

    (f) References to Job Training Partnership Act Subsequent To 
Repeal.--
            (1) Title 5, united states code.--Section 3502(d) of title 
        5, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause 
                      (i) and inserting the following:
                    ``(i) the State or entity designated by the State to 
                carry out rapid response activities under section 
                134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998; 
                and''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking 
                      ``under the Job Training Partnership Act or''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), in the second sentence, by 
                striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (2) Food stamp act of 1977.--
                    (A) Section 5.--Section 5(l) of the Food Stamp Act 
                of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(l)) is
amended by striking ``Notwithstanding section 142(b) of the Job Training 
Partnership Act or section 181(a)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998, earnings to individuals participating in on-the-job training 
programs under section 204(b)(1)(C) or 264(c)(1)(A) of the Job Training 
Partnership Act or in on-the-job training under title I of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998'' and inserting ``Notwithstanding section 
181(a)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, earnings to 
individuals participating in on-the-job training under title I of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998''
                    (B) Section 6.--Section 6 of the Food Stamp Act of 
                1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (d)(4)(M), by striking ``the 
                      State public employment offices and agencies 
                      operating programs under the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act or of'';
                          (ii) in subsection (e)(3), by striking 
                      subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) a program under title I of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998;''; and
                          (iii) in subsection (o)(1)(A), by striking 
                      ``Job Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (C) Section 17.--The second sentence of section 
                17(b)(2) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
                2026(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or''.
            (3) Personal responsibility and work opportunity 
        reconciliation act of 1996.--
                    (A) Section 403(c)(2)(K) of the Personal 
                Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
                of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1613(c)(2)(K)) is amended by striking 
                ``Job Training Partnership Act or''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-430]]

                    (B) Section 423(d)(11) of the Personal 
                Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
                of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1183a note) is amended by striking 
                ``Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (4) Immigration and nationality act.--Section 245A(h)(4)(F) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(h)(4)(F)) 
        is amended by striking ``The Job Training Partnership Act or 
        title'' and inserting ``Title''.
            (5) Refugee education assistance act of 1980.--Section 
        402(a)(4) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (8 
        U.S.C. 1522 note) is amended by striking ``the Comprehensive 
        Employment and Training Act of 1973'' and inserting ``the Job 
        Training Partnership Act or''.
            (6) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1993.--
                    (A) Section 3161.--Section 3161(c)(6) of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 
                (42 U.S.C. 7274h(c)(6)) is amended by striking 
                subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) programs carried out by the Secretary of Labor 
                under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
                1998;''.
                    (B) Section 4461.--Section 4461(1) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 1143 note) is amended by striking ``The Job 
                Training Partnership Act of title'' and inserting 
                ``Title''.
                    (C) Section 4471.--Section 4471 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 2501 note) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the 
                      State dislocated worker unit or office referred to 
                      in section 311(b)(2) of the Job Training 
                      Partnership Act, or'';
                          (ii) in subsection (d), in the first sentence, 
                      by striking ``for training, adjustment assistance, 
                      and employment services under section 325 or 325A 
                      of the Job Training Partnership Act or''; and
                          (iii) in subsection (e), by striking ``for 
                      training, adjustment assistance, and employment 
                      services under section 325 or 325A of the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (D) Section 4492.--Section 4492(b) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 
                U.S.C. 1143 note) is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or''.
            (7) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1994.--Section 1333(c)(2)(B) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (10 U.S.C. 2701 note) is 
        amended by striking ``Private industry councils as described in 
        section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act or local'' and 
        inserting ``local''.
            (8) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 
        1998.--Section 2824(c)(5) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended by 
        striking ``Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (9) Small business act.--The fourth sentence of section 
        7(j)(13)(E) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(E)) 
        is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-431]]

            (10) Full employment and balanced growth act of 1978.--
        Section 206 of the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 
        1978 (15 U.S.C. 3116) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``CETA'' and inserting ``the 
                Job Training Partnership Act and''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``activities 
                carried out under the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (11) Trade act of 1974.--
                    (A) Section 236.--Section 236(a)(5)(B) of the Trade 
                Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296(a)(5)(B)) is amended by 
                striking ``section 303 of the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or''.
                    (B) Section 239.--Section 239(e) of the Trade Act of 
                1974 (19 U.S.C. 2311(e)) is amended by striking ``title 
                III of the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (12) Higher education act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 418A.--Subsections (b)(1)(B)(ii) and 
                (c)(1)(A) of section 418A of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070d-2) are amended by striking 
                ``section 402 of the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (B) Section 480.--Section 480(b)(14) of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(b)(14)) is 
                amended by striking ``Job Training Partnership Act 
                noneducational benefits or''.
            (13) Elementary and secondary education act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 1205.--Section 1205(8)(B) of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6365(8)(B)) is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and''.
                    (B) Section 1414.--Section 1414(c)(8) of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6434(c)(8)) is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (C) Section 1423.--Section 1423(9) of the Elementary 
                and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6453(9)) 
                is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or''.
                    (D) Section 1425.--Section 1425(9) of the Elementary 
                and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6455(9)) 
                is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership 
                Act or''.
            (14) District of columbia school reform act of 1995.--
        Section 2604(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the District of Columbia School 
        Reform Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321-145) is 
        amended by striking ``Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (15) Emergency jobs and unemployment assistance act of 
        1974.--
                    (A) Section 204.--Section 204(b) of the Emergency 
                Jobs and Unemployment Assistance Act of 1974 (26 U.S.C. 
                3304 note) is amended by striking ``service delivery 
                area established'' and all that follows through ``this 
                section) or a''.
                    (B) Section 223.--Section 223 of the Emergency Jobs 
                and Unemployment Assistance Act of 1974 (26 U.S.C. 3304 
                note) is amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-432]]

                          (i) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or''.
            (16) Veterans' benefits and programs improvement act of 
        1988.--Section 402 of the Veterans' Benefits and Programs 
        Improvement Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``title III of 
                the Job Training Partnership Act or''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                          (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``part C 
                      of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                      or''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``title III 
                      of the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (17) Veterans' job training act.--
                    (A) Section 13.--Section 13(b) of the Veterans' Job 
                Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended by 
                striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (B) Section 14.--Section 14(b)(3)(B)(i)(II) of the 
                Veterans' Job Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is 
                amended by striking ``part C of title IV the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (C) Section 15.--Section 15(c)(2) of the Veterans' 
                Job Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note) is amended--
                          (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``part 
                      C of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                      or''; and
                          (ii) in the third sentence, by striking 
                      ``title III of the Job Training Partnership Act 
                      or''.
            (18) Worker adjustment and retraining notification act.--
        Section 3(a)(2) of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining 
        Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2102(a)(2)) is amended by striking 
        ``the State dislocated worker unit or office (referred to in 
        section 311(b)(2) of the Job Training and Partnership Act), 
        or''.
            (19) Title 31, united states code.--Section 6703(a) of title 
        31, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(4) Programs under title I of the Workforce Investment Act 
        of 1998.''.
            (20) Veterans' rehabilitation and education amendments of 
        1980.--Section 512 of the Veterans' Rehabilitation and Education 
        Amendments of 1980 (38 U.S.C. 4101 note) is amended by striking 
        ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (21) Title 38, united states code.--
                    (A) Section 4102A.--Section 4102A(d) of title 38, 
                United States Code, is amended by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act and''.
                    (B) Section 4103A.--Section 4103A(c)(4) of title 38, 
                United States Code, is amended by striking ``part C of 
                title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act and''.
                    (C) Section 4213.--Section 4213 of title 38, United 
                States Code, is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or''.
            (22) Social security act.--Section 403(a)(5) of Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(5)) is amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-433]]

                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(vii)(I), by striking 
                ``described in section 103(c) of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (D)--
                          (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or''; and
                          (ii) in clause (iii), by striking ``shall mean 
                      a local area as defined in section 101 of the 
                      Workforce Investment Act of 1998, as 
                      appropriate''.
            (23) United states housing act.--Section 23 of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437u) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking ``the Job 
                Training Partnership Act or'';
                    (B) in the first sentence of subsection (f)(2), by 
                striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''; and
                    (C) in subsection (g)--
                          (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Job 
                      Training Partnership Act or''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (3)(H), by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (24) Housing act of 1949.--Section 504(c)(3) of the Housing 
        Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1474(c)(3)) is amended by striking ``the 
        Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (25) Older americans act of 1965.--
                    (A) Section 203.--Section 203 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3013) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act and''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph 
                      (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998,''.
                    (B) Section 502.--Section 502 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (b)(1)(N)(i), by striking 
                      ``the Job Training Partnership Act and''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by striking 
                      ``the Job Training Partnership Act and''.
                    (C) Section 503.--Section 503(b)(1) of the Older 
                Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056a(b)(1)) is 
                amended--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act and''; and
                          (ii) in the first sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Job Training Partnership Act or''.
                    (D) Section 510.--Section 510 of the Older Americans 
                Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056h) is amended by striking the 
                matter following the section heading and inserting the 
                following:

    ``In the case of projects under this title carried out jointly with 
programs carried out under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998, eligible individuals shall be deemed to satisfy 
the requirements of section 134 of such Act.''.
            (26) Omnibus crime control and safe streets act of 1968.--
        Section 1801(b)(3) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
        Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796ee(b)(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``part B of title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act or''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-434]]

            (27) Environmental programs assistance act of 1984.--The 
        second sentence of section 2(a) of the Environmental Programs 
        Assistance Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 4368a(a)) is amended by 
        striking ``title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (28) Domestic volunteer service act of 1973.--
                    (A) Section 103.--The second sentence of section 
                103(d) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 
                U.S.C. 4953(d)) is amended to read as follows: ``private 
                industry council established under the Job Training 
                Partnership Act or''.
                    (B) Section 109.--Subsections (c)(2) and (d)(2) of 
                section 109 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
                1973 (42 U.S.C. 4959) is amended by striking 
                ``administrative entities designated to administer job 
                training plans under the Job Training Partnership Act 
                and''.
            (29) Energy conservation and production act.--Section 
        414(b)(3) of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6864(b)(3)) is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
        Partnership Act or''.
            (30) National energy conservation policy act.--Section 233 
        of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 6873) 
        is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.
            (31) Community economic development act of 1981.--Section 
        617(a)(3) of the Community Economic Development Act of 1981 (42 
        U.S.C. 9806(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
        Partnership Act or''.
            (32) Stewart b. mckinney homeless assistance act.--Section 
        103(b)(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 11302(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``the Job Training 
        Partnership Act or''.
            (33) National and community service act of 1990.--
                    (A) Section 198C.--Section 198C(e)(1)(B) of the 
                National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
                12653c(e)(1)(C)) is amended by striking clause (iii) and 
                inserting the following:
                    ``(iii) an individual described in section 144 of 
                the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.''.
                    (B) Section 199L.--Section 199L(a) of the National 
                and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12655m(a)) 
                is amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership 
                Act and''.
            (34) Cranston-gonzalez national affordable housing act.--
        Subparagraphs (H) and (M) of subsection (c)(2), and subsection 
        (d)(7), of section 454 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12899c) are amended by 
        striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act and''.
            (35) Violent crime control and law enforcement act of 
        1994.--Section 31113(a)(4)(C) of the Violent Crime Control and 
        Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13823(a)(4)(C)) is 
        amended by striking ``the Job Training Partnership Act or''.

    (g) <<NOTE: 5 USC 3502 note.>>  Effective Dates.--
            (1) Immediately effective amendments.--The amendments made 
        by subsections (a) through (d) shall take effect on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Subsequently effective amendments.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-435]]

                    (A) Stewart b. mckinney homeless assistance act.--
                The amendments made by subsection (e) shall take effect 
                on July 1, 1999.
                    (B) Job training partnership act.--The amendments 
                made by subsection (f) shall take effect on July 1, 
                2000.

    (h) References.--
            (1) In general.--Section 190 of the Workforce Investment Act 
        of 1998 is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 190. <<NOTE: 29 USC 2940.>>  REFERENCES.

    ``(a) References to Comprehensive Employment and Training Act.--
Except as otherwise specified, a reference in a Federal law (other than 
a reference in a provision amended by the Reading Excellence Act) to a 
provision of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act--
            ``(1) effective on the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
        be deemed to refer to the corresponding provision of the Job 
        Training Partnership Act or of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998; and
            ``(2) effective on July 1, 2000, shall be deemed to refer to 
        the corresponding provision of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998.

    ``(b) References to Job Training Partnership Act.--Except as 
otherwise specified, a reference in a Federal law (other than a 
reference in this Act or a reference in a provision amended by the 
Reading Excellence Act) to a provision of the Job Training Partnership 
Act--
            ``(1) effective on the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
        be deemed to refer to that provision or the corresponding 
        provision of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998; and
            ``(2) effective on July 1, 2000, shall be deemed to refer to 
        the corresponding provision of the Workforce Investment Act of 
        1998.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment <<NOTE: 29 USC 2940 
        note.>> made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if included 
        in the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 199A of such Act is 
        amended <<NOTE: 29 USC 2940 note.>> by striking subsection (c)

    ``SUBTITLE VIII--AMENDMENT TO WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998''.

    Section 173 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2918) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Additional Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--From the amount appropriated and made 
        available to carry out this section for any program year, the 
        Secretary shall use not more than $15,000,000 to make grants to 
        not more than 8 States to provide employment and training 
        activities under section 134, in accordance with subtitle B.
            ``(2) Eligible states.--The Secretary shall make a grant 
        under paragraph (1) to a State for a program year if--
                    ``(A)(i) the amount of the allotment that would be 
                made to the State for the program year under the formula 
                specified in section 202(a) of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act, as in effect on July 1, 1998; is 
                greater than

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-436]]

                    ``(ii) the amount of the allotment that would be 
                made to the State for the program year under the formula 
                specified in section 132(b)(1)(B); and
                    ``(B) the State is 1 of the 8 States with the 
                greatest quotient obtained by dividing--
                          ``(i) the amount described in subparagraph 
                      (A)(i); by
                          ``(ii) the amount described in subparagraph 
                      (A)(ii).
            ``(3) Amount of grants.--Subject to paragraph (1), the 
        amount of the grant made under paragraph (1) to a State for a 
        program year shall be based on the difference between--
                    ``(A) the amount of the allotment that would be made 
                to the State for the program year under the formula 
                specified in section 202(a) of the Job Training 
                Partnership Act, as in effect on July 1, 1998; and
                    ``(B) the amount of the allotment that would be made 
                to the State for the program year under the formula 
                specified in section 132(b)(1)(B).
            ``(4) Allocation of funds.--A State that receives a grant 
        under paragraph (1) for a program year--
                    ``(A) shall allocate funds made available through 
                the grant on the basis of the formula used by the State 
                to allocate funds within the State for that program year 
                under--
                          ``(i) paragraph (2)(A) or (3) of section 
                      133(b); or
                          ``(ii) paragraph (2)(B) of section 133(b); and
                    ``(B) shall use the funds in the same manner as the 
                State uses other funds allocated under the appropriate 
                paragraph of section 133(b).''.

   TITLE IX--WOMEN'S <<NOTE: Women's Health and Cancer Rights Act of 
1998.>> HEALTH AND CANCER RIGHTS

<<NOTE: 42 USC 201 note.>> SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Women's Health and Cancer Rights 
Act of 1998''.

SEC. 902. AMENDMENTS TO THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 
            1974.

    (a) In General.--Subpart B of part 7 of subtitle B of title I of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1185 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

`` <<NOTE: 29 USC 1185b.>> SEC. 713. REQUIRED COVERAGE FOR 
            RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY FOLLOWING MASTECTOMIES.

    ``(a) In General.--A group health plan, and a health insurance 
issuer providing health insurance coverage in connection with a group 
health plan, that provides medical and surgical benefits with respect to 
a mastectomy shall provide, in a case of a participant or beneficiary 
who is receiving benefits in connection with a mastectomy and who elects 
breast reconstruction in connection with such mastectomy, coverage for--
            ``(1) all stages of reconstruction of the breast on which 
        the mastectomy has been performed;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-437]]

            ``(2) surgery and reconstruction of the other breast to 
        produce a symmetrical appearance; and
            ``(3) prostheses and physical complications of mastectomy, 
        including lymphedemas;

in a manner determined in consultation with the attending physician and 
the patient.
Such coverage may be subject to annual deductibles and coinsurance 
provisions as may be deemed appropriate and as are consistent with those 
established for other benefits under the plan or coverage. Written 
notice of the availability of such coverage shall be delivered to the 
participant upon enrollment and annually thereafter.

    ``(b) Notice.--A group health plan, and a health insurance issuer 
providing health insurance coverage in connection with a group health 
plan shall provide notice to each participant and beneficiary under such 
plan regarding the coverage required by this section in accordance with 
regulations promulgated by the Secretary. Such notice shall be in 
writing and prominently positioned in any literature or correspondence 
made available or distributed by the plan or issuer and shall be 
transmitted--
            ``(1) in the next mailing made by the plan or issuer to the 
        participant or beneficiary;
            ``(2) as part of any yearly informational packet sent to the 
        participant or beneficiary; or
            ``(3) not later than January 1, 1999;

whichever is earlier.
    ``(c) Prohibitions.--A group health plan, and a health insurance 
issuer offering group health insurance coverage in connection with a 
group health plan, may not--
            ``(1) deny to a patient eligibility, or continued 
        eligibility, to enroll or to renew coverage under the terms of 
        the plan, solely for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of 
        this section; and
            ``(2) penalize or otherwise reduce or limit the 
        reimbursement of an attending provider, or provide incentives 
        (monetary or otherwise) to an attending provider, to induce such 
        provider to provide care to an individual participant or 
        beneficiary in a manner inconsistent with this section.

    ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prevent a group health plan or a health insurance issuer 
offering group health insurance coverage from negotiating the level and 
type of reimbursement with a provider for care provided in accordance 
with this section.
    ``(e) Preemption, Relation to State Laws.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to preempt any State law in effect on the date of 
        enactment of this section with respect to health insurance 
        coverage that requires coverage of at least the coverage of 
        reconstructive breast surgery otherwise required under this 
        section.
            ``(2) ERISA.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
        affect or modify the provisions of section 514 with respect to 
        group health plans.''.

    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1 of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001 note) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 712 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 713. Required coverage reconstructive surgery following 
           mastectomies.''.


[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-438]]



    (c) Effective <<NOTE: 29 USC 1185b note.>> Dates.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply with respect to plan years beginning on or after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Special rule for collective bargaining agreements.--In 
        the case of a group health plan maintained pursuant to 1 or more 
        collective bargaining agreements between employee 
        representatives and 1 or more employers, any plan amendment made 
        pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement relating to the 
        plan which amends the plan solely to conform to any requirement 
        added by this section shall not be treated as a termination of 
        such collective bargaining agreement.

SEC. 903. AMENDMENTS TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.

    (a) Group Market.--Subpart 2 of part A of title XXVII of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-4 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new section:

``SEC. 2706. <<NOTE: 42 USC 300gg-6.>> REQUIRED COVERAGE FOR 
            RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY FOLLOWING MASTECTOMIES.

    ``The provisions of section 713 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 shall apply to group health plans, and health 
insurance issuers providing health insurance coverage in connection with 
group health plans, as if included in this subpart.''.
    (b) Individual Market.--Subpart 3 of part B of title XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-51 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 2752. REQUIRED COVERAGE FOR RECONSTRUCTIVE <<NOTE: 42 USC 300gg-
            52.>> SURGERY FOLLOWING MASTECTOMIES.

    ``The provisions of section 2706 shall apply to health insurance 
coverage offered by a health insurance issuer in the individual market 
in the same manner as they apply to health insurance coverage offered by 
a health insurance issuer in connection with a group health plan in the 
small or large group market.''.
     <<NOTE: 42 USC 300gg-6 note.>> (c) Effective Dates.--
            (1) Group plans.--
                    (A) In general.--The amendment made by subsection 
                (a) shall apply to group health plans for plan years 
                beginning on or after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Special rule for collective bargaining 
                agreements.--In the case of a group health plan 
                maintained pursuant to 1 or more collective bargaining 
                agreements between employee representatives and 1 or 
                more employers, any plan amendment made pursuant to a 
                collective bargaining agreement relating to the plan 
                which amends the plan solely to conform to any 
                requirement added by the amendment made by subsection 
                (a) shall not be treated as a termination of such 
                collective bargaining agreement.
            (2) Individual plans.-- <<NOTE: 42 USC 300gg-52 note.>> The 
        amendment made by subsection (b) shall apply with respect to 
        health insurance coverage offered, sold, issued, renewed, in 
        effect, or operated in the individual market on or after the 
        date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-439]]

      This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999''.
      (g) For programs, projects or activities in the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, provided 
as follows, to be effective as if it had been enacted into law as the 
regular appropriations Act:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                    Immediate Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Secretary, 
$1,624,000.

                Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Deputy 
Secretary, $585,000.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$8,750,000.

              Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy, $2,808,000.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $7,650,300: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation up to $1,000,000 in funds received in user fees.

        Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Budget and Programs, $6,349,000, including not to exceed $40,000 for 
allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Governmental Affairs, $1,940,600.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-440]]

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration, $19,721,600.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Public Affairs, $1,565,500.

                          Executive Secretariat

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Secretariat, $1,046,900.

                        Board of Contract Appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Board of Contract Appeals, $561,100.

         Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization, $1,020,400.

                   Office of Intelligence and Security

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and Security, 
$1,036,100.

                 Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $4,874,600.

                         Office of Intermodalism

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intermodalism, $956,900.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $6,966,000.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $9,000,000.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$124,124,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That the preceding limitation 
shall not apply to activities associated with departmental Year 2000 
conversion activities: Provided further, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-441]]

limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of 
the Department shall be transferred to the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any program, 
budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice 
of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

                    Minority Business Resource Center

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 
332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $13,775,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry 
out the direct loan program, $400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center outreach 
activities, $2,900,000, of which $2,635,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these 
funds may be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare; $2,700,000,000, of which $300,000,000 shall be 
available for defense-related activities; and of which $25,000,000 shall 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be available 
for pay or administrative expenses in connection with shipping 
commissioners in the United States: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act shall be available for expenses incurred for 
yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the extent fees are 
collected from yacht owners and credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That the Commandant shall reduce both military and civilian 
employment levels for the purpose of complying with Executive Order No. 
12839: Provided further, That up to $615,000 in user fees collected 
pursuant to section 1111 of Public Law 104-324 shall be credited to this 
appropriation as offsetting collections in fiscal year 1999: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may transfer funds to this account, from 
Federal Aviation Administration ``Operations'', not to exceed 
$71,705,000 in total for the fiscal year,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-442]]

fifteen days after written notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, solely for the purpose of providing 
additional funds for drug interdiction activities: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the Coast 
Guard to plan, finalize, or implement any regulation that would 
promulgate new maritime user fees not specifically authorized by law 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

               Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, and 
improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $395,465,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of 
which $219,923,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate or 
improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain available 
until September 30, 2003; $35,700,000 shall be available to acquire new 
aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain available until 
September 30, 2001; $36,569,000 shall be available for other equipment, 
to remain available until September 30, 2001; $54,823,000 shall be 
available for shore facilities and aids to navigation facilities, to 
remain available until September 30, 2001; and $48,450,000 shall be 
available for personnel compensation and benefits and related costs, to 
remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That funds received 
from the sale of HU-25 aircraft shall be credited to this appropriation 
for the purpose of acquiring new aircraft and increasing aviation 
capacity: Provided further, That the Commandant may dispose of surplus 
real property by sale or lease and the proceeds shall be credited to 
this appropriation, of which not more than $1,000,000 shall be credited 
as offsetting collections to this account, to be available for the 
purposes of this account: Provided further, That the amount herein 
appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced by such amount: 
Provided further, That any proceeds from the sale or lease of Coast 
Guard surplus real property in excess of $1,000,000 shall be retained 
and remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 1999: Provided further, That the Secretary, 
with funds made available under this heading, acting through the 
Commandant, may enter into a long-term Use Agreement with the City of 
Homer for dedicated pier space on the Homer dock necessary to support 
Coast Guard vessels when such vessels call on Homer, Alaska.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $21,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $14,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-443]]

                               Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $684,000,000.

                            Reserve Training

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized 
by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and supplies, 
equipment, and services; $69,000,000: Provided, That no more than 
$20,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Coast Guard to assess direct charges on the Coast 
Guard Reserves for items or activities which were not so charged during 
fiscal year 1997.

               Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $12,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to and used for the purposes 
of this appropriation funds received from State and local governments, 
other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries, for 
expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses 
of the Federal Aviation Administration, not otherwise provided for, 
including operations and research activities related to commercial space 
transportation, administrative expenses for research and development, 
establishment of air navigation facilities, the operation (including 
leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, subsidizing the cost of 
aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, and carrying out the 
provisions of subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 49, United States 
Code, or other provisions of law authorizing the obligation of funds for 
similar programs of airport and airway development or improvement, lease 
or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, in 
addition to
amounts made available by Public Law 104-264, $5,562,558,000 of which 
$4,112,174,000 shall be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
Federal Aviation Administration to plan, finalize, or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-444]]

fees not specifically authorized by law after the date of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, 
and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including 
airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related 
thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration forms: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $6,000,000 
shall be for the contract tower cost-sharing program: Provided further, 
That funds may be used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit 
standard-setting organization to assist in the development of aviation 
safety standards: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for new applicants for the second career training 
program: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for paying premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal 
Aviation Administration employee unless such employee actually performed 
work during the time corresponding to such premium pay: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended 
to operate a manned auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous 
United States: Provided further, That no more than $28,600,000 of funds 
appropriated to the Federal Aviation Administration in this Act may be 
used for activities conducted by, or coordinated through, the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center (TASC): Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be used for the Federal Aviation 
Administration to enter into a multiyear lease greater than five years 
in length or greater than $100,000,000 in value unless such lease is 
specifically authorized by the Congress and appropriations have been 
provided to fully cover the Federal Government's contingent liabilities: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to sign a lease for satellite 
services related to the global positioning system (GPS) wide area 
augmentation system until the administrator of the FAA certifies in 
writing to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that FAA 
has conducted a lease versus buy analysis which indicates that such 
lease will result in the lowest overall cost to the agency.

                        Facilities and Equipment

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, establishment, and 
improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air navigation and 
experimental facilities and equipment as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under this 
head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$1,900,000,000, of which $1,652,000,000 shall remain

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-445]]

available until September 30, 2001, and of which $248,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That there may be 
credited to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the establishment and modernization of air 
navigation facilities: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act or any other Act making appropriations for fiscal year 1999 may be 
obligated for bulk explosive detection systems until 30 days after the 
FAA Administrator certifies to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, in writing, that the major air carriers responsible for 
providing aircraft security at Category X airports have agreed to: (1) 
begin assuming the operation and maintenance costs of such machines 
beginning in fiscal year 1999; and (2) substantially increase the usage 
of such machines above the level experienced as of April 1, 1998: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this heading for 
``Next Generation Navigation Systems'' may be obligated or expended for 
activities related to phase two or phase three of the wide area 
augmentation system.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, for research, engineering, and development, 
as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States 
Code, including construction of experimental facilities and acquisition 
of necessary sites by lease or grant, $150,000,000, to be derived from 
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred for 
research, engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for liquidation of 
obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for airport planning and 
development, and for noise compatibility planning and programs as 
authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter I of chapter 
475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law authorizing 
such obligations, $1,600,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and 
Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$1,950,000,000 in fiscal year 1999 for grants-in-aid for airport 
planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and programs, 
notwithstanding section 47117(h) of title 49, United States Code: 
Provided further, That no more than $975,000,000 of funds limited under 
this heading may be obligated prior to the enactment of a bill extending 
contract

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-446]]

authorization for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports program to the third 
and fourth quarters of fiscal year 1999.

                    Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

                Aircraft Purchase Loan Guarantee Program

     <<NOTE: 49 USC 40113 note.>> None of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for activities under this heading during fiscal year 1999.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                Limitation on General Operating Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration not to exceed $327,413,000 shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided 
further, That $53,375,000 shall be available to carry out the functions 
and operations of the office of motor carriers.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

     <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> None of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs, the 
obligations for which are in excess of $25,511,000,000 for Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 1999: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
$25,511,000,000 obligation limitation on Federal-aid highways and 
highway safety construction programs, not more than $200,000,000 shall 
be available for the implementation or execution of programs for 
Intelligent Transportation Systems (Sections 5204, 5205, 5206, 5207, 
5208, and 5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 1999; not more 
than $178,150,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs for transportation research (Sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 
507, and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 
of title 49, United States Code, as amended; and section 5112 of Public 
Law 105-178) for fiscal year 1999; not more than $38,000,000 shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs for Ferry Boat 
and Ferry Terminal Facility Program (Section 1064 of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 129 note; 105 
Stat. 2005) as amended)) for fiscal year 1999; not more than $15,000,000 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs for 
the Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-447]]

Program (Section 1218 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 1999, of 
which not to exceed $500,000 shall be available to the Federal Railroad 
Administration for administrative expenses and technical assistance in 
connection with such program; not more than $31,000,000 shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs for the Bureau 
of Transportation Statistics (Section 111 of title 49, United States 
Code) for fiscal year 1999: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, within the $25,511,000,000 obligation 
limitation, $4,000,000 of the amounts made available as contract 
authority under section 1221(e) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178) shall be made available to carry out 
section 5113 of that Act: Provided further, That within the $200,000,000 
obligation limitation on Intelligent Transportation Systems, not less 
than the following sums shall be made available for Intelligent 
Transportation system projects in the following specified areas:
            Amherst, Massachusetts, $1,000,000;
            Arlington County, Virginia, $750,000;
            Atlanta, Georgia, $2,000,000;
            Brandon, Vermont, $375,000;
            Buffalo, New York, $500,000;
            Centre Valley, Pennsylvania, $500,000;
            Cleveland, Ohio, $1,000,000;
            Columbus, Ohio, $1,000,000;
            Corpus Christi, Texas, $900,000;
            Dade County, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Del Rio, Texas, $1,000,000;
            Delaware River, Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            Fairfield, California, $1,000,000;
            Fitchburg, Massachusetts, $500,000;
            Greater metropolitan capital region, DC, $5,000,000;
            Hammond, Louisiana, $4,000,000;
            Houston, Texas, $2,000,000;
            Huntington Beach, California, $1,000,000;
            Huntsville, Alabama, $1,000,000;
            Inglewood, California, $1,500,000;
            Jackson, Mississippi, $1,000,000;
            Kansas City, Missouri, $500,000;
            Laredo, Texas, $1,000,000;
            Middlesboro, Kentucky, $3,000,000;
            Mission Viejo, California, $1,000,000;
            Mobile, Alabama, $2,500,000;
            Monroe County, New York, $400,000;
            Montgomery, Alabama, $1,250,000;
            Nashville, Tennessee, $500,000;
            New Orleans, Louisiana, $1,500,000;
            New York City, New York, $2,500,000;
            New York/Long Island, New York, $2,300,000;
            Oakland County, Michigan, $1,000,000;
            Onandaga County, New York, $400,000;
            Port Angeles, Washington, $500,000;
            Raleigh-Wake County, North Carolina, $2,000,000;
            Riverside, California, $1,000,000;
            San Francisco, California, $1,500,000;
            Scranton, Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            Silicon Valley, California, $1,500,000;
            Spokane, Washington, $450,000;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-448]]

            Springfield, Virginia, $500,000;
            St. Louis, Missouri, $750,000;
            State of Alaska, $1,500,000;
            State of Idaho, $1,000,000;
            State of Maryland, $2,500,000;
            State of Minnesota, $7,100,000;
            State of Mississippi, $1,000,000;
            State of Missouri, $500,000;
            State of Montana, $700,000;
            State of Nevada, $575,000;
            State of New Jersey, $3,000,000;
            State of New Mexico, $1,000,000;
            State of New York, $2,500,000;
            State of North Dakota, $1,450,000;
            Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, $14,000,000;
            State of Texas, $1,000,000;
            State of Utah, $3,600,000;
            State of Washington, $2,000,000;
            State of Wisconsin, $1,500,000;
            Temucula, California, $250,000;
            Tucson, Arizona, $1,000,000;
            Volusia County, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Warren County, Virginia, $250,000;
            Wausau-Stevens Point-Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin, 
        $1,000,000;
            Westchester and Putnam Counties, New York, $500,000; and
            White Plains, New York, $1,000,000.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for carrying out the 
provisions of title 23, U.S.C., that are attributable to Federal-aid 
highways, including the National Scenic and Recreational Highway as 
authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not otherwise provided, including 
reimbursement for sums expended pursuant to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 
308, $24,000,000,000 or so much thereof as may be available in and 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

                       Motor Carrier Safety Grants

      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102, $100,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $100,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-449]]

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                         Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $87,400,000 for traffic and 
highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C., and part C of 
subtitle VI of title 49, U.S.C., of which $58,558,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, finalize, 
or implement any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of title 49 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining to a grading 
standard that is different from the three grading standards (treadwear, 
traction, and temperature resistance) already in effect.

                         Operations and Research

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403, to 
remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall 
be available for the planning or execution of programs the total 
obligations for which, in fiscal year 1999, are in excess of $72,000,000 
for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

                        National Driver Register

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000 to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                      Highway Traffic Safety Grants

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, $200,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 1999, are in excess of 
$200,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 
411 of which

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-450]]

$150,000,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 
402, $10,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant Protection Incentive Grants'' 
under 23 U.S.C. 405, $35,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving 
Countermeasures Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410, $5,000,000 shall be for 
the ``State Highway Safety Data Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 411: Provided 
further, That none of these funds shall be used for construction, 
rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and 
fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or structures: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $7,500,000 of the funds made available for 
section 402, not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for 
section 405, not to exceed $1,750,000 of the funds made available for 
section 410, and not to exceed $193,000 of the funds made available for 
section 411 shall be available to NHTSA for administering highway safety 
grants under Chapter 4 of title 23, U.S.C.: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 
``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available 
for technical assistance to the States.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                       Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $21,215,000, of which $1,784,000 shall remain 
available until expended: <<NOTE: 40 USC 817 note.>>  Provided, That, as 
part of the Washington Union Station transaction in which the Secretary 
assumed the first deed of trust on the property and, where the Union 
Station Redevelopment Corporation or any successor is obligated to make 
payments on such deed of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including 
payments on and after September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to 
receive such payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation, credit them to the appropriation charged for the first deed 
of trust, and make payments on the first deed of trust with those funds: 
Provided further, That such additional sums as may be necessary for 
payment on the first deed of trust may be advanced by the Administrator 
from unobligated balances available to the Federal Railroad 
Administration, to be reimbursed from payments received from the Union 
Station Redevelopment Corporation.

                             Railroad Safety

    For necessary expenses in connection with railroad safety, not 
otherwise provided for, $61,488,000, of which $3,825,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading are available 
for the reimbursement of out-of-state travel and per diem costs incurred 
by employees of State governments directly supporting the Federal 
railroad safety program, including regulatory development and 
compliance-related activities.

                    Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$22,364,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary is authorized to sell aluminum reaction rail, power rail base, 
and other related materials located at the Transportation

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-451]]

Technology Center, near Pueblo, Colorado, and shall credit the receipts 
from such sale to this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, to 
remain available until expended.

             Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to section 
512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times as 
may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee 
of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of 
such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 502 of 
such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan guarantee commitments 
shall be made using Federal funds for the credit risk premium during 
fiscal year 1999.

                     Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 United States Code sections 26101 and 
26102, $20,494,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $10,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations.

                      Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$5,000,000 to be matched by the State of Rhode Island or its designee on 
a dollar-for-dollar basis and to remain available until expended.

      Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation as authorized by U.S.C. 24104(a), 
$609,230,000, to remain available until expended.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $10,800,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no more than $54,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That of the funds in this Act 
available for the execution of contracts under section 5327(c) of title 
49, United States Code, $800,000 shall be transferred to the Department 
of Transportation Inspector

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-452]]

General for costs associated with the audit and review of new fixed 
guideway systems.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $570,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$2,850,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 3008 of Public 
Law 105-178, the $50,000,000 to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308 shall be 
transferred to and merged with funding provided for the replacement, 
rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related equipment and the 
construction of bus-related facilities under ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Capital investment grants''.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                      Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $19,800,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $98,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)); $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315); 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)); $43,841,600 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305);
$9,158,400 is available for state planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and 
$27,500,000 is available for the national planning and research program 
(49 U.S.C. 5314): Provided further, That of the total budget authority 
made available for the national planning and research program, the 
Federal Transit Administration shall provide the following amounts for 
the projects and activities listed below:
            City of Branson, MO congestion study, $450,000;
            Skagit County, WA North Sound connecting communities 
        project, Skagit County Council of Governments, $50,000;
            Desert air quality comprehensive analysis, Las Vegas, NV, 
        $1,000,000;
            Vegetation control on rail rights-of-way survey, $250,000;
            Zinc-air battery bus technology demonstration, $1,500,000;
            North Orange-South Seminole County, FL fixed guideway 
        technology, $750,000;
            Galveston, TX fixed guideway activities, $750,000;
            Washoe County, NV transit technology, $1,250,000;
            Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority advanced electric 
        transit buses and related infrastructure, $1,500,000;
            Palm Springs, CA fuel cell buses, $1,000,000;
            Gloucester, MA intermodal technology center, $1,500,000;
            Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority advanced 
        propulsion control system, $2,000,000;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-453]]

            Project ACTION, $3,000,000;
            Advanced transportation and alternative fuel vehicle 
        technology consortium (CALSTART), $2,000,000;
            Rural transportation assistance program, $750,000;
            JOBLINKS, $1,000,000;
            Fleet operations, including bus rapid transit, $1,500,000;
            Northern tier community transportation, Massachusetts, 
        $500,000;
            Hennepin County community transportation, Minnesota, 
        $1,000,000; and
            Seattle, Washington livable city, $200,000.

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $4,251,800,000, to remain available until expended and to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That $2,280,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$78,200,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
transit planning and research account: Provided further, That 
$43,200,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
administrative expenses account: Provided further, That $4,800,000 shall 
be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation research account: Provided further, That $40,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job access and 
reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That $1,805,600,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's Capital Investment 
Grants account.

                        Capital Investment Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $451,400,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $2,257,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, there shall be available for fixed guideway 
modernization, $902,800,000; there shall be available for the 
replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related equipment 
and the construction of bus-related facilities, $451,400,000, together 
with $50,000,000 transferred from ``Federal Transit Administration, 
Formula grants'', to be available for the following projects in amounts 
specified below:


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 No.                     State                                         Project                        Conference
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   1 Alaska                                     Anchorage Ship Creek intermodal facility.........   $4,300,000
   2 Alaska                                     Fairbanks intermodal rail/bus transfer facility..    2,000,000
   3 Alaska                                     North Slope Borough buses........................      500,000
   4 Alaska                                     Whittier intermodal facility and pedestrian            700,000
                                                 overpass.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-454]]

 
   5 Alabama                                    Birmingham intermodal facility...................    2,000,000
   6 Alabama                                    Birmingham-Jefferson County, buses...............    1,250,000
   7 Alabama                                    Dothan Wiregrass Transit Authority demand              500,000
                                                 response shuttle vehicles and transit facility.
   8 Alabama                                    Huntsville, intermodal space centers.............    5,000,000
   9 Alabama                                    Huntsville, transit facility.....................    1,000,000
  10 Alabama                                    Jasper buses.....................................       50,000
  11 Alabama                                    Lee-Russell Council buses........................      790,000
  12 Alabama                                    Mobile, GM&O building............................    5,000,000
  13 Alabama                                    Montgomery Union Station intermodal center and       5,000,000
                                                 buses.
  14 Alabama                                    Pritchard, bus transfer facility.................      500,000
  15 Alabama                                    Tuscaloosa, intermodal center....................    1,950,000
  16 Alabama                                    University of North Alabama pedestrian walkways..      800,000
  17 Arkansas                                   Arkansas Highway and Transit Department buses....      200,000
  18 Arkansas                                   Fayetteville, University of Arkansas Transit           500,000
                                                 System buses.
  19 Arkansas                                   Hot Springs, transportation depot and plaza......      560,000
  20 Arkansas                                   Little Rock, Central Arkansas Transit buses......      300,000
  21 Arkansas                                   Statewide bus needs..............................    1,500,000
  22 Arizona                                    Phoenix bus and bus facilities...................    4,000,000
  23 Arizona                                    Tucson alternatively fueled buses................    2,000,000
  24 Arizona                                    Tucson intermodal facility.......................    1,000,000
  25 California                                 Central Contra Costa County transit vans.........      200,000
  26 California                                 Culver City, CityBus buses.......................    1,250,000
  27 California                                 Davis, Unitrans transit maintenance facility.....      625,000
  28 California                                 Davis/Sacramento area hydrogen bus technology          950,000
                                                 program.
  29 California                                 Folsom multimodal facility.......................    1,000,000
  30 California                                 Healdsburg, intermodal facility..................    1,000,000
  31 California                                 Humboldt, intermodal facility....................    1,000,000
  32 California                                 Huntington Beach buses...........................      200,000
  33 California                                 I-5 corridor intermodal transit centers..........    2,500,000
  34 California                                 Lake Tahoe intermodal transit center.............      500,000
  35 California                                 Livermore automatic vehicle locator program......    1,000,000
  36 California                                 Los Angeles County Metropolitan transportation       3,000,000
                                                 authority buses.
  37 California                                 Los Angeles Foothills Transit maintenance            1,000,000
                                                 facility.
  38 California                                 Los Angeles municipal transit operators              2,500,000
                                                 consortium.
  39 California                                 Los Angeles, Union Station Gateway Intermodal        1,250,000
                                                 Transit Center.
  40 California                                 Modesto, bus maintenance facility................    1,355,000
  41 California                                 Monterey, Monterey-Salinas buses.................      625,000
  42 California                                 Morongo Basin, Transit Authority bus facility....      650,000
  43 California                                 North San Diego County transit district buses....    1,750,000
  44 California                                 Perris, bus maintenance facility.................    1,250,000
  45 California                                 Riverside Transit Agency buses and facilities and    1,000,000
                                                 ITS applications.
  46 California                                 Sacramento, CNG buses............................    1,250,000
  47 California                                 San Bernardino buses.............................    1,000,000
  48 California                                 San Diego City College multimodal center (12th       1,000,000
                                                 Avenue/College Station).
  49 California                                 San Fernando Valley smart shuttle buses..........      300,000
  50 California                                 San Francisco, Islais Creek maintenance facility.    1,250,000
  51 California                                 San Joaquin (Stockton) buses and bus facilities..    1,000,000
  52 California                                 Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority buses    1,000,000
                                                 and bus facilities.
  53 California                                 Santa Clarita transit maintenance facility.......    2,250,000
  54 California                                 Santa Cruz metropolitan bus facilities...........      625,000
  55 California                                 Santa Cruz transit facility......................    1,000,000
  56 California                                 Santa Rosa/Cotati, and Rohnert Park facilities...      750,000
  57 California                                 Santa Rosa/Cotati, intermodal transportation           750,000
                                                 facilities.
  58 California                                 Solano Links intercity transit consortium........    1,000,000
  59 California                                 Ukiah Transit Center.............................      500,000
  60 California                                 Windsor, Intermodal Facility.....................      750,000
  61 California                                 Woodland Hills, Warner Center Transportation Hub.      325,000
 

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-455]]

 
  62 California                                 Yolo County, bus facility........................    1,200,000
  63 Colorado                                   Boulder/Denver, RTD buses........................      625,000
  64 Colorado                                   Colorado buses and bus facilities................    6,800,000
  65 Colorado                                   Denver, Stapleton Intermodal Center..............    1,250,000
  66 Connecticut                                Hartford, Transportation Access Project..........      800,000
  67 Connecticut                                New Haven, bus facility..........................    2,250,000
  68 Connecticut                                Norwich, buses...................................    2,250,000
  69 Connecticut                                Waterbury, bus facility..........................    2,250,000
  70 District/Columbia                          Fuel cell bus and bus facilities program (section    4,850,000
                                                 3015(b)).
  71 District/Columbia                          Washington, D.C. Intermodal Transportation Center    2,500,000
  72 Delaware                                   Delaware statewide buses.........................    1,000,000
  73 Florida                                    Broward County, buses............................    1,000,000
  74 Florida                                    Clearwater multimodal facility...................    2,500,000
  75 Florida                                    Daytona Beach, Intermodal Center.................    2,500,000
  76 Florida                                    Gainesville buses and equipment..................    1,500,000
  77 Florida                                    Jacksonville buses and bus facilities............    1,000,000
  78 Florida                                    Lakeland, Citrus Connection transit vehicles and     1,250,000
                                                 related equipment.
  79 Florida                                    Lynx buses and bus facilities....................    1,000,000
  80 Florida                                    Miami, bus security and surveillance.............    1,000,000
  81 Florida                                    Miami Beach multimodal transit center............    1,000,000
  82 Florida                                    Miami Beach, Electric Shuttle Service............      750,000
  83 Florida                                    Miami-Dade, buses................................    2,250,000
  84 Florida                                    Orlando, Intermodal Facility.....................    2,500,000
  85 Florida                                    Tampa Hartline buses.............................    1,250,000
  86 Georgia                                    Atlanta, MARTA buses.............................   12,000,000
  87 Georgia                                    Savannah/Chatham Area transit bus transfer           3,500,000
                                                 centers and buses.
  88 Hawaii                                     Honolulu, bus facility and buses.................    3,250,000
  89 Illinois                                   Illinois statewide buses and bus-related             6,800,000
                                                 equipment.
  90 Illinois                                   Rock Island, buses...............................    2,500,000
  91 Indiana                                    City of East Chicago buses.......................      200,000
  92 Indiana                                    Gary, Transit Consortium buses...................    1,250,000
  93 Indiana                                    Indianapolis, buses..............................    5,000,000
  94 Indiana                                    South Bend, Urban Intermodal Transportation          1,250,000
                                                 Facility.
  95 Iowa                                       Fort Dodge, Intermodal Facility (Phase II).......      885,000
  96 Iowa                                       Iowa statewide buses and bus facilities..........    3,000,000
  97 Iowa                                       Iowa/Illinois Transit Consortium bus safety and      1,000,000
                                                 security.
  98 Iowa                                       Sioux City park and ride bus facility............    1,800,000
  99 Kansas                                     Johnson County bus maintenance/operations            2,000,000
                                                 facility.
 100 Kentucky                                   Louisville, Kentucky University of Louisville and    3,000,000
                                                 River City buses.
 101 Kentucky                                   Northern Kentucky Area Development District            100,000
                                                 senior citizen buses.
 102 Kentucky                                   Owensboro buses..................................      200,000
 103 Kentucky                                   Southern and eastern Kentucky buses and bus          2,000,000
                                                 facilities.
 104 Louisiana                                  Statewide buses and bus-related facilities.......   11,000,000
 105 Massachusetts                              Essex and Middlesex buses........................    3,128,000
 106 Massachusetts                              New Bedford/Fall River Mobile Access to health         250,000
                                                 care.
 107 Massachusetts                              Pittsfield intermodal center.....................    4,600,000
 108 Massachusetts                              Springfield, Union Station.......................    1,250,000
 109 Massachusetts                              Westfield intermodal center......................    2,000,000
 110 Massachusetts                              Worcester, Union Station Intermodal                  2,500,000
                                                 Transportation Center.
 111 Maryland                                   Maryland statewide bus facilities and buses......   10,000,000
 112 Michigan                                   Lansing, CATA bus technology improvements........      600,000
 113 Michigan                                   Michigan statewide buses.........................   10,000,000
 114 Minnesota                                  Duluth, Transit Authority community circulation      1,000,000
                                                 vehicles.
 115 Minnesota                                  Duluth, Transit Authority intelligent                  500,000
                                                 transportation systems.
 116 Minnesota                                  Duluth, Transit Authority Transit Hub............      500,000
 

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-456]]

 
 117 Minnesota                                  Northstar Corridor, Intermodal Facilities and        6,000,000
                                                 buses.
 118 Minnesota                                  Twin Cities area metro transit buses and bus         9,500,000
                                                 facilities.
 119 Missouri                                   Kansas City Union Station redevelopment..........    2,500,000
 120 Missouri                                   OATS Transit.....................................    2,500,000
 121 Missouri                                   Southwest Missouri State University park and ride    1,000,000
                                                 facility.
 122 Missouri                                   St. Louis, Bi-state Intermodal Center............    1,250,000
 123 Missouri                                   Statewide bus and bus facilities.................    4,500,000
 124 Mississippi                                Harrison County multimodal center/hybrid electric    1,900,000
                                                 shuttle buses.
 125 Mississippi                                High Street, Jackson intermodal center...........    2,000,000
 126 Mississippi                                Jackson buses and facilities.....................    1,600,000
 127 Montana                                    Butte bus replacements...........................    1,500,000
 128 Nevada                                     Clark County Regional Transportation Commission      2,615,000
                                                 buses and bus facilities.
 129 Nevada                                     Reno, RTC transit passenger and facility security    1,250,000
                                                 improvements.
 130 Nevada                                     Washoe County, transit improvements..............    2,250,000
 131 New Hampshire                              Berlin Tri-County Community Action transit garage      120,000
 132 New Hampshire                              Carroll County transportation alliance buses.....      200,000
 133 New Hampshire                              Concord Area Transit buses.......................      750,000
 134 New Hampshire                              Greater Laconia Transit Agency buses.............      450,000
 135 New Hampshire                              Keene HCS community care buses and equipment.....      100,000
 136 New Hampshire                              Lebanon advance transit buses....................      150,000
 137 New Hampshire                              Statewide transit systems........................    1,000,000
 138 New Jersey                                 New Jersey Transit jitney shuttle buses..........    1,750,000
 139 New Jersey                                 Newark, Morris & Essex Station access and buses..    1,250,000
 140 New Jersey                                 South Amboy, Regional Intermodal Transportation      1,250,000
                                                 Initiative.
 141 New Jersey                                 Statewide alternatively fueled vehicles..........    7,500,000
 142 New Mexico                                 Albuquerque, buses, paratransit vehicles, and bus    3,750,000
                                                 facility.
 143 New Mexico                                 Northern New Mexico park and ride facilities.....    2,000,000
 144 New York                                   Babylon, Intermodal Center.......................    1,250,000
 145 New York                                   Brookhaven Town, elderly and disabled buses and        225,000
                                                 vans.
 146 New York                                   Brooklyn-Staten Island, Mobility Enhancement           800,000
                                                 buses.
 147 New York                                   Broome County buses and fare collection equipment      900,000
 148 New York                                   Buffalo, Auditorium Intermodal Center............    3,000,000
 149 New York                                   Dutchess County, Loop System buses...............      521,000
 150 New York                                   East Hampton, elderly and disabled buses and vans      100,000
 151 New York                                   Ithaca, TCAT bus technology improvements.........    1,250,000
 152 New York                                   Long Beach central bus facility..................      750,000
 153 New York                                   Long Island, CNG transit vehicles and facilities     1,250,000
                                                 and bus replacement.
 154 New York                                   Mineola/Hicksville, LIRR Intermodal Centers......    1,250,000
 155 New York                                   Nassau County CNG buses..........................    1,000,000
 156 New York                                   New York City Midtown West Ferry Terminal........    1,500,000
 157 New York                                   New York, West 72nd St. Intermodal Station.......    1,750,000
 158 New York                                   Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority Hublink      500,000
 159 New York                                   Rensselaer intermodal bus facility...............    1,000,000
 160 New York                                   Riverhead, elderly and disabled buses and vans...      125,000
 161 New York                                   Rochester central bus facility...................    1,000,000
 162 New York                                   Rome, Intermodal Center..........................      400,000
 163 New York                                   Shelter Island, elderly and disabled buses and         100,000
                                                 vans.
 164 New York                                   Smithtown, elderly and disabled buses and vans...      125,000
 165 New York                                   Southampton, elderly and disabled buses and vans.      125,000
 166 New York                                   Southold, elderly and disabled buses and vans....      100,000
 167 New York                                   Suffolk County, elderly and disabled buses and         100,000
                                                 vans.
 168 New York                                   Syracuse CNG buses and facilities................    2,000,000
 

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-457]]

 
 169 New York                                   Ulster County bus facilities and equipment.......    1,000,000
 170 New York                                   Utica and Rome, bus facilities and buses.........      500,000
 171 New York                                   Utica, Union Station.............................    2,100,000
 172 New York                                   Westchester County, Bee-Line transit system            979,000
                                                 fareboxes.
 173 New York                                   Westchester County, Bee-Line transit system          1,000,000
                                                 shuttle buses.
 174 New York                                   Westchester County, DOT articulated buses........    1,250,000
 175 North Carolina                             Greensboro, Multimodal Center....................    3,340,000
 176 North Carolina                             Greensboro, Transit Authority buses..............    1,500,000
 177 North Carolina                             Greensboro, Transit Authority small buses and          321,000
                                                 vans.
 178 North Carolina                             Statewide buses and bus facilities...............    5,000,000
 179 North Dakota                               Statewide buses and bus-related facilities.......    2,000,000
 180 Ohio                                       Cleveland, Triskett Garage bus maintenance             625,000
                                                 facility.
 181 Ohio                                       Dayton, Multimodal Transportation Center.........      625,000
 182 Ohio                                       Statewide buses and bus facilities...............   12,000,000
 183 Ohio                                       Toledo Mud Hens transit center study.............      200,000
 184 Oklahoma                                   Oklahoma statewide bus facilities and buses......    5,000,000
 185 Oregon                                     Lane County, Bus Rapid Transit...................    4,400,000
 186 Oregon                                     Portland, Tri-Met buses..........................    1,750,000
 187 Oregon                                     Rogue Valley transit district bus purchase.......    1,000,000
 188 Oregon                                     Salem area mass transit system buses.............    1,000,000
 189 Oregon                                     Wilsonville, buses and shelters..................      400,000
 190 Pennsylvania                               Altoona bus testing facility (section 3009)......    3,000,000
 191 Pennsylvania                               Altoona, Metro Transit Authority buses and             842,000
                                                 transit system improvements.
 192 Pennsylvania                               Altoona, Metro Transit Authority Logan Valley           80,000
                                                 Mall Suburban Transfer Center.
 193 Pennsylvania                               Altoona, Metro Transit Authority Transit Center        424,000
                                                 improvements.
 194 Pennsylvania                               Altoona, pedestrian crossover....................      800,000
 195 Pennsylvania                               Armstrong County-Mid-County, PA bus facilities         150,000
                                                 and buses.
 196 Pennsylvania                               Beaver County bus facility.......................    1,000,000
 197 Pennsylvania                               Bradford County, Endless Mountain Transportation     1,000,000
                                                 Authority buses.
 198 Pennsylvania                               Cambria County, bus facilities and buses.........      575,000
 199 Pennsylvania                               Centre Area, Transportation Authority buses......    1,250,000
 200 Pennsylvania                               Chambersburg, Transit Authority buses............      300,000
 201 Pennsylvania                               Chambersburg, Transit Authority Intermodal Center    1,000,000
 202 Pennsylvania                               Chester County, Paoli Transportation Center......    1,000,000
 203 Pennsylvania                               Crawford Area, Transportation buses..............      500,000
 204 Pennsylvania                               Erie, Metropolitan Transit Authority buses.......    1,000,000
 205 Pennsylvania                               Fayette County, Intermodal Facilities and buses..    1,270,000
 206 Pennsylvania                               Lackawanna County, Transit System buses..........      600,000
 207 Pennsylvania                               Mercer County, buses.............................      750,000
 208 Pennsylvania                               Monroe County, Transportation Authority buses....    1,000,000
 209 Pennsylvania                               Philadelphia, Frankford Transportation Center....    5,000,000
 210 Pennsylvania                               Philadelphia, Intermodal 30th Street Station.....    1,250,000
 211 Pennsylvania                               Philadelphia, Regional Transportation System for       750,000
                                                 Elderly and Disabled.
 212 Pennsylvania                               Reading, BARTA Intermodal Transportation Facility    1,750,000
 213 Pennsylvania                               Red Rose, Transit Bus Terminal...................    1,000,000
 214 Pennsylvania                               Robinson, Towne Center Intermodal Facility.......    1,500,000
 215 Pennsylvania                               Schuylkill County buses..........................      220,000
 216 Pennsylvania                               Somerset County, bus facilities and buses........      175,000
 217 Pennsylvania                               Towamencin Township, Intermodal Bus                  1,500,000
                                                 Transportation Center.
 218 Pennsylvania                               Washington County, Intermodal Facilities.........      630,000
 219 Pennsylvania                               Westmoreland County, Intermodal Facility.........      200,000
 220 Pennsylvania                               Wilkes-Barre, Intermodal Facility................    1,250,000
 221 Pennsylvania                               Williamsport, Bus Facility.......................    1,200,000
 222 Puerto Rico                                San Juan Intermodal access.......................      950,000
 223 Rhode Island                               Providence, buses and bus maintenance facility...    2,250,000
 224 Rhode Island                               Rhode Island Public Transit Authority buses......    3,200,000
 225 South Carolina                             Columbia Bus replacement.........................    1,100,000
 

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-458]]

 
 226 South Carolina                             Pee Dee buses and facilities.....................    1,250,000
 227 South Carolina                             South Carolina statewide Virtual Transit             1,220,000
                                                 Enterprise.
 228 South Carolina                             Spartanburg buses and facilities.................    1,000,000
 229 South Dakota                               Computerized bus dispatch system, radios, money        800,000
                                                 boxes, and lift replacements.
 230 South Dakota                               Sioux Falls buses................................    1,000,000
 231 South Dakota                               South Dakota statewide bus facilities and buses..    3,500,000
 232 Tennessee                                  Statewide buses and bus facilities...............    2,000,000
 233 Texas                                      Austin, buses....................................    2,250,000
 234 Texas                                      Brazos Transit Authority buses and facilities....    1,500,000
 235 Texas                                      Corpus Christi transit authority buses and           1,000,000
                                                 facilities.
 236 Texas                                      Dallas Area Rapid transit buses..................    2,750,000
 237 Texas                                      Fort Worth bus and paratransit vehicle project...    2,500,000
 238 Texas                                      Galveston buses and bus facilities...............    1,000,000
 239 Texas                                      Texas statewide small urban and rural buses......    6,000,000
 240 Utah                                       Ogden, Intermodal Center.........................      800,000
 241 Utah                                       Utah Hybrid electric vehicle bus purchase........    1,500,000
 242 Utah                                       Utah Transit Authority, Intermodal Facilities....    1,500,000
 243 Utah                                       Utah Transit Authority/Park City Transit, buses..    6,500,000
 244 Vermont                                    Brattleboro Union Station multimodal center......    2,500,000
 245 Vermont                                    Burlington intermodal center.....................    1,000,000
 246 Vermont                                    Deerfield Valley Transit authority...............      500,000
 247 Virginia                                   Alexandria, bus maintenance facility and Crystal     1,000,000
                                                 City canopy project.
 248 Virginia                                   Alexandria, King Street Station access...........    1,100,000
 249 Virginia                                   Harrisonburg, buses..............................      200,000
 250 Virginia                                   Lynchburg, buses.................................      200,000
 251 Virginia                                   Richmond, GRTC bus maintenance facility..........    1,250,000
 252 Virginia                                   Roanoke, buses...................................      200,000
 253 Virginia                                   Statewide buses and bus facilities...............   10,000,000
 254 Washington                                 Anacortes ferry terminal information system......      500,000
 255 Washington                                 Ben Franklin transit operating facility..........    1,000,000
 256 Washington                                 Bremerton transportation center..................    1,000,000
 257 Washington                                 Central Puget Sound Seattle bus program..........    8,000,000
 258 Washington                                 Chelan-Douglas multimodal center.................      900,000
 259 Washington                                 Everett, Multimodal Transportation Center........    1,950,000
 260 Washington                                 Grant County, buses and vans.....................      600,000
 261 Washington                                 Mount Vernon, Multimodal Center..................    1,750,000
 262 Washington                                 Port Angeles center..............................    1,000,000
 263 Washington                                 Seattle, Intermodal Transportation Terminal......    1,250,000
 264 Washington                                 Snohomish County, Community transit buses........    1,000,000
 265 Washington                                 Tacoma Dome, buses and bus facilities............    1,750,000
 266 Washington                                 Thurston County intercity buses..................    1,000,000
 267 Washington                                 Vancouver, Clark County (C-Tran) bus facilities..    1,000,000
 268 Wisconsin                                  Milwaukee County, buses..........................    4,000,000
 269 Wisconsin                                  Wisconsin statewide bus facilities and buses.....   12,875,000
 270 West Virginia                              Huntington, Intermodal Facility..................    8,000,000
 271 West Virginia                              West Virginia statewide Intermodal Facility and      6,500,000
                                                 buses.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 and there shall be available for new fixed guideway systems, 
$902,800,000, to be available as follows:
            $10,400,000 for the Alaska or Hawaii ferry projects;
            $5,000,000 for the Albuquerque light rail project;
            $52,110,000 for the Atlanta-North Springs project;
            $1,000,000 for the Austin Capital metro project;
            $500,000 for the Baltimore central downtown transit 
        alternatives major investment study;
            $1,000,000 for the Baltimore light rail double track 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Birmingham, Alabama alternatives analysis 
        study and preliminary engineering;
            $500,000 for the Boston North-South rail link project;
            $750,000 for the Boston urban ring project;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-459]]

            $2,000,000 for the Burlington-Essex, Vermont commuter rail 
        project;
            $2,200,000 for the Canton-Akron-Cleveland commuter rail 
        project;
            $2,200,000 for the Charleston, South Carolina monobeam rail 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Charlotte, North Carolina South-North 
        corridor transitway project;
            $6,000,000 for the Chicago Metra commuter rail extensions 
        and upgrades project;
            $3,000,000 for the Chicago Transit Authority Ravenswood and 
        Douglas branch lines projects: Provided, That recognizing the 
        nature of these projects, of the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 
        section 5309(e), only sections 5309(e)(1)(C) and 5309(e)(4) 
        shall apply;
            $1,800,000 for the Cincinnati Northeast/Northern Kentucky 
        rail line project;
            $4,000,000 for the Clark County, Nevada fixed guideway 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Cleveland Berea Red Line extension to the 
        Hopkins International Airport project;
            $2,000,000 for the Cleveland Euclid corridor improvement 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Colorado-North Front Range corridor 
        feasibility study;
            $12,000,000 for the Dallas-Fort Worth RAILTRAN project;
            $16,000,000 for the DART North Central light rail extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Dayton, Ohio light rail study;
            $40,000,000 for the Denver Southwest Corridor project;
            $500,000 for the Denver Southeast Corridor multimodal 
        corridor project;
            $17,000,000 for the Dulles corridor project;
            $4,000,000 for the Fort Lauderdale, Florida Tri-County 
        commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Harrisburg, Pennsylvania capital area 
        transit/corridor one project;
            $1,500,000 for the Hartford, Connecticut light rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Honolulu, Hawaii major investment 
        analysis of transit alternatives;
            $2,000,000 for the Houston advanced regional transit 
        program;
            $59,670,000 for the Houston Regional Bus project;
            $1,000,000 for the Johnson County, Kansas I-35 commuter rail 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Kansas City, Missouri commuter rail study;
            $500,000 for the Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
        commuter rail project;
            $250,000 for the King County, Washington Elliot Bay water 
        taxi;
            $1,500,000 for the Knoxville, Tennessee electric transit 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Largo, Maryland Metro Blue Line extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Little Rock, Arkansas River rail project;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-460]]

            $24,000,000 for the Long Island Railroad East Side access 
        project, New York;
            $38,000,000 for the Los Angeles MOS-3 project;
            $1,000,000 for the Massachusetts North Shore corridor 
        project;
            $17,041,000 for the MARC commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Maryland Route 5 corridor;
            $2,200,000 for the Memphis, Tennessee Medical Center rail 
        extension project;
            $3,000,000 for the Miami Metro-Dade Transit east-west 
        corridor project;
            $3,000,000 for the Miami Metro-Dade North 27th Avenue 
        corridor project;
            $8,000,000 for the Mid-City and East Side projects, Los 
        Angeles;
            $4,000,000 for the Morgantown, West Virginia fixed guideway 
        modernization project;
            $1,000,000 for the Nashville, Tennessee regional commuter 
        rail project;
            $70,000,000 for the New Jersey urban core Hudson-Bergen LRT 
        project;
            $6,000,000 for the New Jersey urban core Newark-Elizabeth 
        rail link project;
            $500,000 for the New London, Connecticut waterfront access 
        project;
            $22,000,000 for the New Orleans Canal Street corridor 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the New Orleans Desire Streetcar project;
            $8,000,000 for the Norfolk-Virginia Beach regional rail 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Northeast Ohio commuter rail study, Phase 
        2;
            $3,000,000 for the Northern Indiana South Shore commuter 
        rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Oceanside-Escondido passenger rail 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Old Saybrook-Hartford, Connecticut rail 
        extension project;
            $1,000,000 for the Omaha, Nebraska trolley system;
            $2,500,000 for the Orange County, California transitway 
        project;
            $17,500,000 for the Orlando Lynx light rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Philadelphia-Reading SEPTA Schuykill 
        Valley Metro project;
            $1,000,000 for the Philadelphia SEPTA Cross County Metro 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the Phoenix metropolitan area transit 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Pittsburgh Allegheny County Stage II 
        light rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Pittsburgh North Shore central business 
        district transit options MIS;
            $25,718,000 for the Portland-Westside/Hillsboro project;
            $5,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Link light rail project;
            $41,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Sounder commuter rail 
        project;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-461]]

            $10,000,000 for the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Triangle 
        Transit project;
            $23,480,000 for the Sacramento south corridor LRT project;
            $70,000,000 for the Salt Lake City South LRT project;
            $5,000,000 for the Salt Lake City/Airport to University 
        (West-East) light rail project: Provided further, That the non-
        governmental share for these funds shall be determined in 
        accordance with Section 3030(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Transportation 
        Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended (Public Law 105-
        178);
            $1,000,000 for the San Bernardino Metrolink extension 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the San Diego Mid-Coast corridor project;
            $1,500,000 for the San Diego Mission Valley East light rail 
        transit project;
            $40,000,000 for the San Francisco BART extension to the 
        airport project;
            $500,000 for the San Jacinto-Branch Line (Riverside County) 
        project;
            $27,000,000 for the San Jose Tasman LRT project;
            $20,000,000 for the San Juan Tren Urbano;
            $500,000 for the Savannah, Georgia water taxi;
            $250,000 for the Sioux City micro rail trolley system;
            $53,983,000 for the South Boston Piers MOS-2 project;
            $1,000,000 for the South Dekalb-Lindburgh corridor LRT 
        project;
            $200,000 for the Southeast Michigan commuter rail viability 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Spokane, Washington light rail project;
            $500,000 for the St. Louis-Jefferson City-Kansas City, 
        Missouri commuter rail project;
            $35,000,000 for the St. Louis-St. Clair LRT extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Stamford, Connecticut fixed guideway 
        connector;
            $1,000,000 for the Tampa Bay regional rail project;
            $17,000,000 for the Twin Cities Transitways project;
            $2,000,000 for the Virginia Railway Express Woodbridge 
        station improvements project; and
            $1,000,000 for the West Trenton, New Jersey rail project:

Provided further, That funds provided in Public Law 105-66 for the 
Pennsylvania Strawberry Hill/Diamond Branch rail project shall be 
available for the Laurel Rail line project in Lackawanna County, 
Pennsylvania.

                        Mass Transit Capital Fund

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of previous 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5338(b), $2,000,000,000, 
to remain available until expended and to be derived from the Mass 
Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-462]]

                  Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $75,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes: Provided further, That of the amounts 
appropriated under this head, not more than $10,000,000 shall be used 
for grants for reverse commute projects.

             Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 14 of 
Public Law 96-184 and Public Law 101-551, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

              SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

              Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $11,496,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                      Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $29,280,000, of which $574,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $3,460,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-463]]

                             Pipeline Safety

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline 
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $33,248,000, 
of which $4,248,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund and shall remain available until September
30, 2001; and of which $29,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $16,219,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2001: Provided, That in addition to amounts made available for the 
Pipeline Safety Fund, $1,400,000 shall be available for grants to States 
for the development and establishment of one-call notification systems 
and public education activities, and shall be derived from amounts 
previously collected under 49 U.S.C. 60301.

                      Emergency Preparedness Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September
30, 2001: Provided, That not more than $11,000,000 shall be made 
available for obligation in fiscal year 1999 from amounts made available 
by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d): Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall be made 
available for obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of 
Transportation, or his designee.

                       OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$43,495,000.

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $16,000,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$2,600,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 1999, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $16,000,000: Provided further, That any fees received in 
excess of $2,600,000 in fiscal year 1999

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-464]]

shall remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 1999.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $3,847,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$53,473,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                             Emergency Fund

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board 
for accident investigations, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a 
GS-15; uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1999 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: 49 USC 106 note.>>  Funds appropriated under this 
Act for expenditures by the Federal Aviation Administration shall be 
available: (1) except

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-465]]

as otherwise authorized by title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), for expenses of primary 
and secondary schooling for dependents of Federal Aviation 
Administration personnel stationed outside the continental United States 
at costs for any given area not in excess of those of the Department of 
Defense for the same area, when it is determined by the Secretary that 
the schools, if any, available in the locality are unable to provide 
adequately for the education of such dependents; and (2) for 
transportation of said dependents between schools serving the area that 
they attend and their places of residence when the Secretary, under such 
regulations as may be prescribed, determines that such schools are not 
accessible by public means of transportation on a regular basis.

    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.

    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 100 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. The Secretary of Transportation may enter into grants, 
cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local 
government, any educational institution, and any other entity in 
execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the 
Defense Conversion, Reinvestment and Transition Assistance Act of 1992 
and related legislation: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
section may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 309. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> (a) For fiscal year 1999, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        and amounts authorized for the highway use tax evasion program 
        and the Bureau of Transportation Statistics.
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-466]]

        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
                construction programs (other than sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for sections set forth in paragraphs (1) 
                through (7) of subsection (b) and sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for section 105 of title 23, United States 
                Code, equal to the amount referred to in subsection 
                (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the aggregate of the 
                amounts not distributed under paragraph (1) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for section 117 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to high priority projects program), 
        section 201 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, 
        the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, and 
        $2,000,000,000 for such fiscal year under section 105 of the 
        Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (relating to 
        minimum guarantee) so that the amount of obligation authority 
        available for each of such sections is equal to the amount 
        determined by multiplying the ratio determined under paragraph 
        (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such section 
        (except in the case of section 105, $2,000,000,000) for such 
        fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by the 
        Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined under 
        paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
        program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety
construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee program, but 
only to the extent that amounts apportioned for the minimum guarantee 
program for such fiscal year exceed $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian 
development highway system program) that are apportioned by the 
Secretary under title 23, United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.

    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-467]]

(1) under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 
147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under 
section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 
131(b) and 131(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; 
(5) under sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and 
Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under section 1103 
through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991; (7) under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 23, 
United States Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for 
such fiscal year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 1015 of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapters 3 and 5 of 
title 23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made 
available for such programs under such limitation shall remain available 
for a period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds 
(1) that are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
Federal-aid highways programs (other than the program under section 160 
of title 23, United States Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and chapter 4 of title 23, 
United States Code, and (2) that the Secretary determines will not be 
allocated to the States, and will not be available for obligation, in 
such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation limitation for 
such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall be made in the 
same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority under subsection 
(a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for any purposes 
described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    (f) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) for a section set forth in subsection 
(a)(4) shall remain available until used for obligation of funds for 
such section and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
construction programs for future fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338 note.>> The limitations on obligations 
for the programs of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply 
to any authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for 
obligation, or to any other authority previously made available for 
obligation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-468]]

    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel traffic 
safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara 
Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation 
Scheme.
    Sec. 314. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44502 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, airports may transfer, without consideration, to the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) instrument landing systems (along 
with associated approach lighting equipment and runway visual range 
equipment) which conform to FAA design and performance specifications, 
the purchase of which was assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, 
airport development aid program or airport
improvement program grant. The FAA shall accept such equipment, which 
shall thereafter be operated and maintained by the FAA in accordance 
with agency criteria.

    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that: (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in excess 
of $10,000,000 in any one year of the contract; (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's 
liability; or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which the 
Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 316. Section 218 of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence by striking ``the south 
                Alaskan border'' and inserting ``Haines'' in lieu 
                thereof;
                    (B) in the third sentence by striking ``highway'' 
                and inserting ``highway or the Alaska Marine Highway 
                System'' in lieu thereof;
                    (C) in the fourth sentence by striking ``any other 
                fiscal year thereafter'' and inserting ``any other 
                fiscal year thereafter, including any portion of any 
                other fiscal year thereafter, prior to the date of the 
                enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
                Century'' in lieu thereof;
                    (D) in the fifth sentence by striking ``construction 
                of such highways until an agreement'' and inserting 
                ``construction of the portion of such highways that are 
                in Canada until an agreement'' in lieu thereof; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by inserting ``in Canada'' after 
        ``undertaken''.

    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except for 
fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this Act 
under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' for 
projects specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying 
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2001, and other recoveries, 
shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 5309.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-469]]

    Sec. 318. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 1998, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 319. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate in 
excess of 350 technical staff-years under the federally funded research 
and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 320. Funds provided in this Act for the Transportation 
Administrative Service Center (TASC) shall be reduced by $15,000,000, 
which limits fiscal year 1999 TASC obligational authority for elements 
of the Department of Transportation funded in this Act to no more than 
$109,124,000: Provided, That such reductions from the budget request 
shall be allocated by the Department of Transportation to each 
appropriations account in proportion to the amount included in each 
account for the Transportation Administrative Service Center.
    Sec. 321. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited respectively 
to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Limitation on General 
Operating Expenses'' account, the Federal Transit Administration's 
``Transit Planning and Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad 
Administration's ``Railroad Safety'' account, except for State rail 
safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 322. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
prepare, propose, or promulgate any regulations pursuant to title V of 
the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (49 U.S.C. 32901 et 
seq.) prescribing corporate average fuel economy standards for 
automobiles, as defined in such title, in any model year that differs 
from standards promulgated for such automobiles prior to enactment of 
this section.
    Sec. 323. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall convey, without consideration, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the parcels of real property 
described in this section, together with any improvements thereon, as 
the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the conveyance, to 
the entities described in this section, namely: (1) United States Coast 
Guard Pass Manchac Light
in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana, to the State of Louisiana; and (2) 
Tchefuncte River Range Rear Light in Madisonville, Louisiana, to the 
Town of Madisonville, Louisiana.

    Sec. 324. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the purpose of promulgating or enforcing any regulation that has the 
practical effect of (a) requiring more than one attendant during 
unloading of liquefied compressed gases, or (b) preventing the attendant 
from monitoring the customer's liquefied compressed gas storage tank 
during unloading.
    Sec. 325. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited to 
the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-470]]

funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction.
    Sec. 326. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended 
for employee training which: (1) does not meet identified needs for 
knowledge, skills and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
official duties; (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
emotional response or psychological stress in some participants; (3) 
does not require prior employee notification of the content and methods 
to be used in the training and written end of course evaluations; (4) 
contains any methods or content associated with religious or quasi-
religious belief systems or ``new age'' belief systems as defined in 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
September 2, 1988; (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or (6) 
includes content related to human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than that necessary to make 
employees more aware of the medical ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the 
workplace rights of HIV-positive employees.
    Sec. 327. None of the funds in this Act shall, in the absence of 
express authorization by Congress, be used directly or indirectly to pay 
for any personal service, advertisement, telegram, telephone, letter, 
printed or written matter, or other device, intended or designed to 
influence in any manner a Member of Congress, to favor or oppose, by 
vote or otherwise, any legislation or appropriation by Congress, whether 
before or after the introduction of any bill or resolution proposing 
such legislation or appropriation: Provided, That this shall not prevent 
officers or employees of the Department of Transportation or related 
agencies funded in this Act from communicating to Members of Congress on 
the request of any Member or to Congress, through the proper official 
channels, requests for legislation or appropriations which they deem 
necessary for the efficient conduct of the public business.
    Sec. 328. Not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds provided in this Act 
for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees: Provided, That this 
limitation shall not apply to advisory committees established for the 
purpose of conducting negotiated rulemaking in accordance with the 
Negotiated Rulemaking Act, 5 U.S.C. 561-570a, or the Coast Guard's 
advisory council on roles and missions
    Sec. 329. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1653 note.>>  Bulk Fuel Storage Tank. (a) 
Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
remainder of the balance in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability Fund 
that is transferred and deposited into the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund under section 8102(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
(43 U.S.C. 1653 note) after June 16, 1998 shall be used in accordance 
with this section.

    (b) Use of Interest Only.--The interest produced from the investment 
of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability Fund balance that is transferred 
and deposited into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund under section 
8102(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (43 U.S.C. 1653 note) 
after June 16, 1998 shall be transferred annually by the National 
Pollution Funds Center to the Denali Commission for a program, to be 
developed in consultation with the Coast Guard, to repair or replace 
bulk fuel storage tanks in Alaska which are not in compliance with 
federal law, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or State law.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-471]]

    (c) TAPS Payment to Alaska Dedicated to Bulk Fuel Storage Tank 
Repair and Replacement.--Section 8102(a)(2)(B)(i) of Public Law 101-380 
(43 U.S.C. 1653 note) is amended by inserting immediately before the 
semicolon, ``, which, except as otherwise provided under article IX, 
section 15, of the Alaska Constitution, shall be used for the 
remediation of above-ground storage tanks''.
    Sec. 330. No funds other than those appropriated to the Surface 
Transportation Board or fees collected by the Board shall be used for 
conducting the activities of the Board.
    Sec. 331. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
funds the entity will comply with the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-
10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 332. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, receipts, in 
amounts determined by the Secretary, collected from users of fitness 
centers operated by or for the Department of Transportation shall be 
available to support the operation and maintenance of those facilities.
    Sec. 333. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
implement or enforce regulations that would result in the withdrawal of 
a slot from an air carrier at O'Hare International Airport under section 
93.223 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations in excess of the 
total slots withdrawn from that air carrier as of October 31, 1993 if 
such additional slot is to be allocated to an air carrier or foreign air 
carrier under section 93.217 of title 14 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 334. Notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 41742, no essential air service 
shall be provided to communities in the 48 contiguous States that are 
located fewer than 70 highway miles from the nearest large or medium hub 
airport, or that require a rate of subsidy per passenger in excess of 
$200 unless such point is greater than 210 miles from the nearest large 
or medium hub airport.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-472]]

    Sec. 335. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and other 
funds received by the Department from travel management centers, charge 
card programs, the subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous 
sources are to be credited to appropriations of the Department and 
allocated to elements of the Department using fair and equitable 
criteria and such funds shall be available until December 31, 1999.
    Sec. 336. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of an 
amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 337. The unobligated balances of the funds made available in 
previous appropriations Acts for the National Civil Aviation Review 
Commission and for Urban Discretionary Grants are rescinded.
    Sec. 338. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            (1) the land and improvements thereto comprising the Coast 
        Guard Reserve Training Facility in Jacksonville, Florida, is 
        deemed to be surplus property; and
            (2) the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall dispose of all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to that 
        property, by sale, at fair market value.

    (b) Right of First Refusal.--Before a sale is made under subsection 
(a) to any other person, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall give to 
the City of Jacksonville, Florida, the right of first refusal to 
purchase all or any part of the property required to be sold under that 
subsection.
    Sec. 339. Of the funds provided under Federal Aviation 
Administration ``Operations'', $250,000 is only for activities and 
operations of the Centennial of Flight Commission.
    Sec. 340. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall waive repayment of any Federal-aid highway funds 
expended on the construction of those high occupancy lanes or auxiliary 
lanes constructed on I-287 in the State of New Jersey, pursuant to 
section 338 of the fiscal year 1993 Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act (Public Law 102-388), if the State 
of New Jersey presents the Secretary with its determination that such 
high occupancy vehicle lanes or auxiliary lanes are not in the public 
interest.
    Sec. 341. (a) Authority To Convey.--The Secretary of Transportation 
may convey, without consideration, to the State of North Carolina (in 
this section referred to as the ``State''), all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, 
together with any improvements thereon, in Ocracoke, North Carolina, 
consisting of such portion of the Coast Guard Station Ocracoke, North 
Carolina, as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the 
conveyance.
    (b) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to the following conditions:
            (1) That the State accept the property to be conveyed under 
        that subsection subject to such easements or rights of way in 
        favor of the United States as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate for--
                    (A) utilities;
                    (B) access to and from the property;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-473]]

                    (C) the use of the boat launching ramp on the 
                property; and
                    (D) the use of pier space on the property by search 
                and rescue assets.
            (2) That the State maintain the property in a manner so as 
        to preserve the usefulness of the easements or rights of way 
        referred to in paragraph (1).
            (3) That the State utilize the property for transportation, 
        education, environmental, or other public purposes.

    (c) Reversion.--(1) If the Secretary determines at any time that the 
property conveyed under subsection (a) is not to be used in accordance 
with subsection (b), all right, title, and interest in and to the 
property, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United 
States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry 
thereon.
    (2) Upon reversion under paragraph (1), the property shall be under 
the administrative jurisdiction of the Administrator of General 
Services.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property conveyed under subsection (a), and any 
easements or rights of way granted under subsection (b)(1), shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the State.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions with respect to the conveyance under 
subsection (a), and any easements or rights of way granted under 
subsection (b)(1), as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
    Sec. 342. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this or any other Act intended for highway demonstration 
projects, railroad-highway crossings demonstration projects or railroad 
relocation projects in Augusta, Georgia are available for implementation 
of a project consisting of modifications and additions to streets, 
railroads, and related improvements in the vicinity of the grade 
crossing of the CSX railroad and 15th Street in Augusta, Georgia.
    Sec. 343. <<NOTE: 33 USC 2720 note.>>  (a) None of the funds made 
available by this Act or subsequent Acts may be used by the Coast Guard 
to issue, implement, or enforce a regulation or to establish an 
interpretation or guideline under the Edible Oil Regulatory Reform Act 
(Public Law 104-55), or the amendments made by that Act, that does not 
recognize and provide for, with respect to fats, oils, and greases (as 
described in that Act, or the amendments made by that Act) differences 
in--
            (1) physical, chemical, biological and other relevant 
        properties; and
            (2) environmental effects.

    (b) Not later <<NOTE: Regulations.>> than March 31, 1999, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall issue regulations amending 33 CFR 154 
to comply with the requirements of Public Law 104-55.

    Sec. 344. Funding made available in Public Law 105-174 for emergency 
railroad rehabilitation and repair shall be available for repairs 
resulting from natural disasters occurring from September 1996 through 
July 10, 1998.
    Sec. 345. For purposes of evaluating environmental impacts of the 
toll road in Orange and San Diego counties, California, the 
Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration and other

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-474]]

participating Federal agencies shall consider only those transportation 
alternatives previously identified by regional planning processes and 
shall restrict agency comments to those matters over which the agency 
has direct jurisdiction: Provided, That notwithstanding any inter-agency 
memoranda of understanding, the Administrator of the Federal Highway 
Administration shall retain and exercise all authority regarding the 
form, content and timing of any environmental impact statement and 
record of decision regarding the toll road, including the evaluation and 
selection of alternatives and distribution of draft and final 
environmental impact statements.
    Sec. 346. (a) Notwithstanding any other law, the Commandant, United 
States Coast Guard, shall convey to the University of South Alabama (in 
this section referred to as ``the recipient''), the right, title, and 
interest of the United States Government in and to a decommissioned 
vessel of the Coast Guard, as determined appropriate by the Commandant 
and the recipient, if--
            (1) the recipient agrees to use the vessel for the purposes 
        of supporting archaeological and historical research in the 
        Mobile Bay Delta;
            (2) the recipient agrees not to use the vessel for 
        commercial transportation purposes, except as incident to the 
        provision of logistics services in connection with the Old 
        Mobile Archaeological Project;
            (3) The recipient agrees to make the vessel available to the 
        Government if the Commandant requires use of the vessel by the 
        Government in times of war or national emergency;
            (4) the recipient agrees to hold the Government harmless for 
        any claims arising from exposure to hazardous materials 
        including, but not limited to, asbestos and polychlorinated 
        biphenyls (PCBs), after conveyance of the vessel, except for 
        claims arising from use by the Government under paragraph (3);
            (5) the recipient has funds available to be committed for 
        use to restore the vessel to operation and thereafter maintain 
        it in good working condition, in the amount of at least 
        $400,000; and
            (6) the recipient agrees to any other conditions that the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.

    (b) Delivery of Vessel.--If a conveyance is made under this section, 
the Commandant shall deliver the vessel at the place where the vessel is 
located, in its present condition, without cost to the Government. The 
conveyance of this vessel shall not be considered a distribution in 
commerce for purposes of section 2605(e) of title 15, United States 
Code.
    (c) Other Unneeded Equipment.--The Commandant may convey to the 
recipient any unneeded equipment or parts from other decommissioned 
vessels pending disposition for use to restore the vessel to 
operability. The Commandant may require compensation from the recipient 
for such items.
    (d) Applicable Laws and Regulations.--The vessel shall at all times 
remain subject to applicable vessel safety laws and regulations.
    Sec. 347. Item 1132 in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 298), relating to Mississippi, is 
amended by striking ``Pirate Cove'' and inserting ``Pirates' Cove and 4-
lane connector to Mississippi Highway 468''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-475]]

    Sec. 348. (a) Authority To Convey Coast Guard Property to 
Jacksonville University in Jacksonville, Florida.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation may convey 
        to Jacksonville University, located in Jacksonville, Florida, 
        without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the property comprising the Long Branch 
        Rear Range Light, Jacksonville, Florida.
            (2) Identification of property.--The Secretary may identify, 
        describe, and determine the property to be conveyed under this 
        section.

    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Any conveyance of any property under this 
section shall be made--
            (1) subject to such terms and conditions as the Commandant 
        may consider appropriate; and
            (2) subject to the condition that all right, title, and 
        interest in and to the property conveyed shall immediately 
        revert to the United States if the property, or any part 
        thereof, ceases to be used by Jacksonville University.

    Sec. 349. For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council 
authorized under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $450,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be for payments to outside 
consultants: Provided further, That the duties of the Amtrak Reform 
Council described in section 203(g)(1) of Public Law 105-134 shall 
include the identification of Amtrak routes which are candidates for 
closure or realignment, based on performance rankings developed by 
Amtrak which incorporate information on each route's fully allocated 
costs and ridership on core intercity passenger service, and which 
assume, for purposes of closure or realignment candidate identification, 
that federal subsidies for Amtrak will decline over the 4-year period 
from fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That these 
closure or realignment recommendations shall be included in the Amtrak 
Reform Council's annual report to the Congress required by section 
203(h) of Public Law 105-134.
    Sec. 350. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall approve and the State of New York is authorized to proceed with 
engineering, final design and construction of additional entrances and 
exits between exits 57 and 58 on Interstate 495 in Suffolk County, New 
York. The Secretary may review final design of such project.
    Sec. 351. (a) Section 30113 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or passenger 
                motor vehicles from a bumper standard prescribed under 
                chapter 325 of this title,'' after ``a motor vehicle 
                safety standard prescribed under this chapter''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``or chapter 
                325 of this title (as applicable)'' after ``this 
                chapter'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``, or a bumper 
        standard prescribed under chapter 325 of this title,'' after 
        ``motor vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by inserting ``(including an 
        exemption under subsection (b)(3)(B)(i) relating to a bumper 
        standard referred to in subsection (b)(1))'' after ``subsection 
        (b)(3)(B)(i) of this section''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-476]]

            (4) in subsection (h), by inserting ``or bumper standard 
        prescribed under chapter 325 of this title'' after ``each motor 
        vehicle safety standard prescribed under this chapter''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 32502(c) of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``any part of a standard'' and inserting ``all 
                or any part of a standard'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; or''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) a passenger motor vehicle for which an application for 
        an exemption under section 30013(b) of this title has been filed 
        in accordance with the requirements of that section.''.
            (2) Section 32506(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``and section 32502 of this title'' after 
        ``Except as provided in this section''.

    Sec. 352. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $10,000,000 of 
funds available under section 104(a) of title 23 U.S.C., shall be made 
available to the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, for 
research activities at the Transportation Research Institute and to 
construct a building to house the Institute, and shall remain available 
until expended.
    Sec. 353. Discretionary grants funds for bus and bus-related 
facilities made available in this Act and in Public Law 105-66 and its 
accompanying conference report for the Virtual Transit Enterprise 
project shall be used to fund any aspect of the Virtual Transit 
Enterprise integration of information project in South Carolina.
    Sec. 354. Section 3021 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
Century (Public Law 105-178) is amended-- <<NOTE: 49 USC 5307 note.>> 
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the State of 
        Vermont'' after ``the State of Oklahoma''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by inserting ``and the State of 
        Vermont'' after ``within the State of Oklahoma''.

    Sec. 355. Section 3 of the Act of July 17, 1952 (66 Stat. 746, 
chapter 921), and section 3 of the Act of July 17, 1952 (66 Stat. 571, 
chapter 922), are each amended in the proviso--
            (1) by striking ``That'' and all that follows through ``the 
        collection of'' and inserting ``That the commission may 
        collect''; and
            (2) by striking ``, shall cease'' and all that follows 
        through the period at the end and inserting a period.

    Sec. 356. Section 1212(m) of Public Law 105-178 is amended--(1) in 
the subsection heading, by inserting ``, Idaho, Alaska and West 
Virginia'' after ``Minnesota''; and (2) by inserting ``or the States of 
Idaho, Alaska or West Virginia'' after ``Minnesota''.
    Sec. 357. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
obligated and awarded in fiscal year 1994 by the Economic Development 
Administration in the amount of $912,000 to the City of Pittsburg, 
Kansas, as Project Number 05-19-61200 for water, sewer and street 
improvements shall be disbursed to the City upon determination by the 
EDA that the improvements have been completed in accordance with the 
project description in the award documents.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-477]]

    Sec. 358. Section 3030(d)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
                    ``(C) Saint Barnard Parish, Louisiana intermodal 
                facility.''.

    Sec. 359. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any 
other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided, That no 
appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more than 12 per centum 
by all such transfers: Provided further, That any such transfer shall be 
submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 360. Section 3027 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
Century (49 U.S.C. 5307 note; 112 Stat. 366) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(3) Services for elderly and persons with disabilities.--In 
addition to assistance made available under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
may provide assistance under section 5307 of title 49, United States 
Code, to a transit provider that operates 20 or fewer vehicles in an 
urbanized area with a population of at least 200,000 to finance the 
operating costs of equipment and facilities used by the transit provider 
in providing mass transportation services to elderly and persons with 
disabilities, provided that such assistance to all entities shall not 
exceed $1,000,000 annually.''.
    Sec. 361. Hereafter, the Commonwealth of Virginia shall have the 
exclusive authority to determine the high-occupancy vehicle restrictions 
applicable to Interstate Highway 66 in Virginia.
    Sec. 362. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
issue a final standard under docket number NHTSA 98-3945 (relating to 
section 656(b) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Responsibility Act 
of 1996).
    Sec. 363. Items 178 and 1547 in section 1602 of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178), relating to 
Georgia, are amended by adding at the end the following: ``and construct 
improvements to said corridor''.
    Sec. 364. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall approve the construction of Type II noise barriers from funds 
apportioned under sections 104(b)(1) and 104(b)(3) of title 23, United 
States Code, at the following locations:
            (a) beginning on the north and south sides of Interstate 
        Route 20 extending from H.E. Holmes Road to Fulton Industrial 
        Boulevard in Fulton County, Georgia;
            (b) beginning on the north and south sides of Interstate 
        Route 20 extending from Flat Shoals Road to Columbia Drive in 
        DeKalb County, Georgia; and
            (c) beginning on the west side of Interstate Route 75 
        extending from Howell Mill Road to West Paces Ferry Road in 
        Fulton County, Georgia.

    Sec. 365. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as 
otherwise provided in this section, the Secretary shall approve and the 
State of Alabama is authorized to proceed with construction of the East 
Foley corridor project from Baldwin County Highway 20 to State Highway 
59, identified in items 857 and 1501 in the table contained in Section 
1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 
105-178). Environmental reviews performed by the Alabama Department of 
Environmental

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-478]]

Management and the Mobile District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
and all other non-environmental federal laws shall remain in effect.
    Sec. 366. Item 1083 contained in section 1602 of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 297) is amended by striking 
``between Southwest Drive and U.S. 277''.
    Sec. 367. Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal law, the 
State of Minnesota may obligate funds apportioned in fiscal years 1998 
through 2003 pursuant to section 117 of title 23, United States Code, 
for high priority project numbers 1628 and 1195 authorized in section 
1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 
105-178): Provided, That such obligation shall be subject to the 
allocation percentages of section 1602(b) as modified by section 1212(m) 
of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-
178).
    Sec. 368. Item number 577 in the table contained in Section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
is amended by striking ``Construct'' and all that follows through 
``Ketchikan'' and insert ``For the purposes set forth in item number 
1496''.
    Sec. 3769. Section 5117(b)(6) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (23 U.S.C. 502 note; 112 Stat. 450) is amended by 
striking ``Pennsylvania Transportation Institute'' and inserting 
``Commonwealth of Pennsylvania''.
    Sec. 370. Section 5204 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
Century (23 U.S.C. 502 note; 112 Stat. 453-455) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(k) Use of Rights-of-Way.--Intelligent transportation system 
projects specified in section 5117(b)(3) and 5117(b)(6) and involving 
privately owned intelligent transportation system components that is 
carried out using funds made available from the Highway Trust Fund shall 
not be subject to any law or regulation of a State or political 
subdivision of a State prohibiting or regulating commercial activities 
in the rights-of-way of a highway for which Federal-aid highway funds 
have been utilized for planning, design, construction, or maintenance, 
if the Secretary of Transportation determines that such use is in the 
public interest. Nothing in this subsection shall affect the authority 
of a State or political subdivision of a State to regulate highway 
safety.''.
    Sec. 371. (a) The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall convey, 
without consideration, to the Town of New Castle, New Hampshire (in this 
section referred to as the ``Town''), all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property comprising 
approximately 2 acres and having approximately 100 feet of ocean front 
that is located in New Castle, New Hampshire. The property is bordered 
to the west by property owned by the Town and to the east by Coast Guard 
Station Portsmouth Harbor, New Hampshire.
    (b)(1) The Commandant shall, in connection with the conveyance 
required by subsection (a), grant to the Town such easements and rights-
of-way as the Commandant considers necessary to permit access to the 
property conveyed under that subsection.
    (2) The Commandant may, in connection with the conveyance required 
by subsection (a), reserve in favor of the United States such easements 
and rights-of-way as the Commandant considers necessary to protect the 
interests of the United States.
    (c)(1) The conveyance of property under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to the following conditions:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-479]]

            (A) That the property, or any portion thereof, shall revert 
        to the United States if the Commandant determines that such 
        property is required by the United States for purposes of the 
        national security of the United States.
            (B) That the property, or any portion thereof, shall revert 
        to the United States if the Commandant determines that such 
        property is required by the United States for purposes of a site 
        for an aid to navigation.

    (2)(A) At least 30 days before the date of the reversion of property 
under paragraph (1)(A), the Commandant shall provide the Town written 
notice that the property is required for purposes of the national 
security of the United States.
    (B) At least 30 days before the date of the reversion of property 
under paragraph (1)(B), the Commandant shall provide the Town written 
notice that the property is required for purposes of a site for an aid 
to navigation.

    (d)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, Public Law 88-578, as amended, or other 
law, the Coast Guard property conveyed to New Castle, New Hampshire 
pursuant to subsection (a) may be used to replace a portion of Land and 
Water Conservation Fund-assisted land in New Castle, New Hampshire under 
project number 33-00077: Provided, That the replacement property 
satisfactorily meets the conversion criteria regarding reasonably 
equivalent recreation usefulness and location.
    (2) The Town may not use the property referred to in paragraph (1) 
for the purpose specified in that paragraph unless the property conveyed 
under subsection (a) provides opportunities for recreational activities 
that are reasonably similar to the opportunities for recreational 
activities provided by the property referred to in paragraph (1).
    (e) The Commandant may require such additional terms and conditions 
in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a), and the grants 
of any easements or rights-of-way under subsection (b), as the 
Commandant considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.
      Sec. 372. None of the Funds made available under this Act or any 
other Act, may be used to implement, carry out, or enforce any 
regulation issued under section 41705 of title 49, United States Code, 
including any regulation contained in part 382 of title 14, Code of 
Federal Regulations, or any other provision of law (including any Act of 
Congress, regulation, or Executive order or any official guidance or 
correspondence thereto), that requires or encourages an air carrier (as 
that term is defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code) 
to, on intrastate or interstate air transportation (as those terms are 
defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code)--
            (1) provide a peanut-free buffer zone or any other related 
        peanut-restricted area; or
            (2) restrict the distribution of peanuts,

until 90 days after submission to the Congress and the Secretary of a 
peer-reviewed scientific study that determines that there are severe 
reactions by passengers to peanuts as a result of contact with very 
small airborne peanut particles of the kind that passengers might 
encounter in an aircraft.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-480]]

SEC. 373. MODIFICATION OF SUBSTITUTE PROJECT IN WISCONSIN--

      Section 1045 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1994) is amended in subsection (a) by striking 
paragraph (a)(2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2)(A) For six months after the date of enactment of this 
        paragraph, the provisions set forth in paragraph (2)(B) shall 
        apply to all of the funds identified in this section. After such 
        time, the provisions set forth in paragraph (2)(B) shall apply 
        to fifty percent of the funds identified in this section, and 
        the provisions of paragraph (2)(C) shall apply to fifty percent 
        of the funds identified in this section.''
            ``(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) and subsection (c) of 
        this section, upon the request of the Governor of the State of 
        Wisconsin, after consultation with appropriate local government 
        officials, submitted by October 1, 2000, the Secretary may 
        approve one or more substitute projects in lieu of the 
        substitute project approved by the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
        and subsection (c) of this section.''
            ``(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) and subsection (c) of 
        this section, upon the request of the Governor of the State of 
        Wisconsin, submitted by October 1, 2000, the Secretary shall 
        approve one or more substitute projects in lieu of the 
        substitute project approved by the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
        and subsection (c) of this section.''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999''.
      (h) For programs, projects or activities in the Treasury and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1999, provided as follows, to be 
effective as if it had been enacted into law as the regular 
appropriations Act:

                   TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$150,000 for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to 
be allocated and expended under the direction of the Secretary of the 
Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his certificate, 
$123,151,000: Provided, That the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall 
be funded at no less than $6,560,800: Provided further, That the 
Department is authorized to charge both direct and indirect costs to the 
Office of Foreign Assets Control in the implementation of this floor: 
Provided further, That the methodology for applying such charges will be 
the same

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-481]]

method used in developing the Departmental Offices Fiscal Year 1999 
President's Budget Justification to the Congress.

                         Automation Enhancement

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$28,690,000: Provided, That these funds shall remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy the 
requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be used to 
support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service appropriations for 
Information Systems: Provided further, That $6,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated for the Customs Modernization project may not be 
transferred to the United States Customs Service or obligated until the 
Treasury's Chief Information Officer, through the Treasury Investment 
Review Board, concurs on the plan and milestone schedule for the 
deployment of the system: Provided further, That $6,000,000 of the funds 
made available for the Customs Modernization project may not be 
obligated for any major system investments prior to the development of 
an architecture which is compliant with the Treasury Information Systems 
Architecture Framework (TISAF) and the establishment of measures to 
enforce compliance with the architecture.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury, 
$30,678,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury Building 
and Annex, $27,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement
personnel to attend meetings concerned with financial intelligence 
activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; not to exceed 
$14,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and for 
assistance to Federal law

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-482]]

enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $24,000,000: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure 
personal services contracts.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, as follows:
            (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $119,000,000; of 
        which $3,000,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, 
        Tobacco and Firearms for administering the Gang Resistance 
        Education and Training program; of which $1,400,000 shall be 
        available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network; of which 
        $22,628,000 shall be available to the United States Secret 
        Service, including $6,700,000 for vehicle replacement, 
        $5,000,000 for investigations of counterfeiting, $7,732,000 for 
        the 2000 candidate/nominee protection program, and $3,196,000 
        for forensic and related support of investigations of missing 
        and exploited children, of which $1,196,000 shall be available 
        as a grant for activities related to the investigations of 
        exploited children and shall remain available until expended; of 
        which $65,472,000 shall be available for the United States 
        Customs Service, including $54,000,000 for narcotics detection 
        technology, $9,500,000 for the passenger processing initiative, 
        $972,000 for construction of canopies for inspection of outbound 
        vehicles along the Southwest border, and $1,000,000 for 
        technology investments related to the Cyber-Smuggling Center; of 
        which $2,500,000 shall be available to the Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy, including $1,000,000 for Model State Drug 
        Law Conferences, and $1,500,000 to expand the Milwaukee, 
        Wisconsin High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and of which 
        $24,000,000 shall be available for Interagency Crime and Drug 
        Enforcement;
            (2) As authorized by section 32401, $13,000,000 to the 
        Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement through 
        grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts to local 
        governments for Gang Resistance Education and Training: 
        Provided, That notwithstanding sections 32401 and 310001, such 
        funds shall be allocated to State and local law enforcement and 
        prevention organizations.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
for expenses for student athletic and related activities; uniforms 
without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current 
fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches and 
presentation of awards; for public awareness and enhancing community 
support of law enforcement

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-483]]

training; not to exceed $9,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses; room and board for student interns; and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $71,923,000, of which up to $13,843,000 for materials 
and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 3771 
note. acquisition, construction, improvements, and related 
expenses>> That the Center is authorized to accept and use gifts of 
property, both real and personal, and to accept services, for authorized 
purposes, including funding of a gift of intrinsic value which shall be 
awarded annually by the Director of the Center to the outstanding 
student who graduated from a basic training program at the Center during 
the previous fiscal year, which shall be funded only by gifts received 
through the Center's gift authority: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, students attending training 
at any Federal Law Enforcement Training Center site shall reside in on-
Center or Center-provided housing, insofar as available and in 
accordance with Center policy: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
in this account shall be available, at the discretion of the Director, 
for the following: training United States Postal Service law enforcement 
personnel and Postal police officers; State and local government law 
enforcement training on a space-available basis; training of foreign law 
enforcement officials on a space-available basis with reimbursement of 
actual costs to this appropriation, except that reimbursement may be 
waived by the Secretary for law enforcement training activities in 
foreign countries undertaken pursuant to section 801 of the 
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Public Law 104-
32; training of private sector security officials on a space-available 
basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this appropriation; and 
travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend course development 
meetings and training sponsored by the Center: Provided further, That 
the Center is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of 
reimbursements from agencies receiving training sponsored by the Federal 
Law Enforcement Training Center, except that total obligations at the 
end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided further, That the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide 
training for the Gang Resistance Education and Training program to 
Federal and non-Federal personnel at any facility in partnership with 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided further, That the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-
  term medical services for students undergoing training at the Center.

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$34,760,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the detection and investigation of 
individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-484]]

cooperative efforts with State and
local law enforcement, $51,900,000, of which $7,827,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$196,490,000, of which not to exceed $13,235,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2001, for information systems modernization 
                              initiatives.

    For liquidation of certain debts to the United States Treasury 
incurred by the Federal Financing Bank pursuant to section 9(b) of the 
Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, $3,317,960,000.

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 812 vehicles for police-
type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; services of expert witnesses 
at such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per 
diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to 
the National Response Team during the investigation of a bombing or 
arson incident requires an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or 
to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed $15,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; for training of 
State and local law enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, 
including training in connection with the training and acquisition of 
canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or without 
reimbursement; $541,574,000, of which $2,206,000 shall not be available 
for obligation until September 30, 1999; of which $27,000,000 may be 
used for the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative; of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees 
as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or 
aircraft available for official use by a State or local law enforcement 
agency if the conveyance will be used in joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, and 
other similar costs of State and local law enforcement personnel, 
including sworn officers and support personnel, that are incurred in 
joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: 
Provided, That no funds made available by this or any other Act may be 
used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other agencies or Departments in fiscal 
year 1999: Provided further, That of the funds made available, 
$4,500,000 shall be made available for the expansion of the National 
Tracing Center: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for salaries or administrative

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-485]]

expenses in connection with consolidating or centralizing, within the 
Department of the Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of 
acquisition and disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms 
licensees: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer 
or employee of the United States to implement an amendment or amendments 
to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 
27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it 
existed on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act upon 
applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That no funds in this Act may be used to provide ballistics 
imaging equipment to any State or local authority who has obtained 
similar equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy unless the State or 
local authority agrees to return that equipment or to repay that grant 
or subsidy to the Federal Government: Provided further, That no funds 
under this Act may be used to electronically retrieve information 
gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or any personal 
identification code.

                      United States Customs Service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 550 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $40,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service, $1,642,565,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to 
section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act of 1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from 
that Account; of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available 
for payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations, 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research, 
not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081, and up to 
$8,000,000 shall be available until expended for the procurement of 
automation infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and 
installation: Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to 
the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, an additional $2,400,000 
shall be made available for staffing and resources for the child 
pornography cybers-muggling initiative: Provided further, That $500,000 
shall be available to fund the expansion of services at the Vermont 
World Trade Office: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500,000 
shall be available until expended for relocation of the Customs Air 
Branch from Belle Chase to Hammond, Louisiana: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fiscal year aggregate 
overtime limitation

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-486]]

prescribed in subsection 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 
U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall be $30,000: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, $9,500,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
                           September 30, 1999.

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction programs, the 
operations of which include the following: the interdiction of narcotics 
and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and other Federal, 
State, and local agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws 
enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the discretion of the 
Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance to Federal, State, 
and local agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian 
efforts, $113,688,000, which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no aircraft or other related equipment, with the 
exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and has been identified as 
excess to Customs requirements and aircraft which has been damaged 
beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other Federal agency, 
department, or office outside of the Department of the Treasury, during 
fiscal year 1999 without the prior approval of the Committees on 
                             Appropriations.

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $176,500,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2001, for information systems modernization initiatives: Provided, 
That the sum appropriated herein from the General Fund for fiscal year 
1999 shall be reduced by not more than $4,400,000 as definitive security 
issue fees and Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance fees are 
collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1999 appropriation 
from the General Fund estimated at $172,100,000, and in addition, 
$20,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to 
reimburse the Bureau for administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 102 of Public 
Law 101-380: <<NOTE: 31 USC 306 note.>>  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provisions of law, effective upon enactment 
and thereafter, the Bureau

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-487]]

of the Public Debt shall be fully and directly reimbursed by the funds 
described in section 104 of Public Law 101-136 (103 Stat. 789) for costs 
and services performed by the Bureau in the administration of such 
funds.

                        Internal Revenue Service

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; programs to match 
information returns and tax returns; management services; rent and 
utilities; and inspection; including purchase (not to exceed 150 for 
replacement only for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
$3,086,208,000, of which up to $3,700,000 shall be for the Tax 
Counseling for the Elderly Program, and of which not to exceed $25,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided, 
That of the amount provided, $105,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for postage and shall not be obligated before September 30, 
1999: Provided further, That, pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3206(a), funds shall 
continue to be provided to the United States Postal Service for postage 
due: Provided further, That of the amount provided, $25,000,000 shall 
        not be available for obligation until September 30, 1999.

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; issuing technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
                             $3,164,189,000.

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $143,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
                                  1997.

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,265,456,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2000, and of which

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-488]]

$103,000,000 shall be available only for improvements to customer 
                                service.

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$211,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, for the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of such acquisition, and 
including contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That none of these funds is available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That none of 
these funds shall be obligated until the Internal Revenue Service and 
the Department of the Treasury submit to Congress for approval, a plan 
for expenditure that: (1) implements the Internal Revenue Service's 
Modernization Blueprint submitted to Congress on May 15, 1997; (2) meets 
the information systems investment guidelines established by the Office 
of Management and Budget and in the fiscal year 1998 budget; (3) is 
reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget, the 
Department of the Treasury's IRS Management Board, and is reviewed by 
the General Accounting Office; (4) meets the requirements of the May 15, 
1997 Internal Revenue Service's Systems Life Cycle program; and (5) is 
in compliance with acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and 
   systems acquisition management practices of the Federal Government.

    Section 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be transferred 
to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
     Sec. 102. <<NOTE: 26 USC 7803 note.>>  The Internal Revenue Service 
shall maintain a training program to ensure that Internal Revenue 
Service employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing 
courteously with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.

     Sec. 103. The funds provided in this Act for the Internal Revenue 
Service shall be used to provide, as a minimum, the fiscal year 1995 
level of service, staffing, and funding for Taxpayer Services.
     Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
used in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax 
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of 
officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection 
with such collection, including any private sector employees under 
contract to the Internal Revenue Service, complies with subsection (a) 
of section 805 (relating to communications in connection with debt 
collection), and section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the 
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
     Sec. 105. <<NOTE: 26 USC 6103 note.>> The Internal Revenue Service 
shall institute and enforce policies and procedures which will safeguard 
the confidentiality of taxpayer information.

     Sec. 106. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-489]]

1-800 help line for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
the improvement of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service 
a priority and allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and 
staff to improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigators in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.

                      United States Secret Service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 739 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 675 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where a protective assignment during the actual 
day or days of the visit of a protectee require an employee to work 16 
hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; the 
conducting of and participating in firearms matches; presentation of 
awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on protective missions 
without regard to the limitations on such expenditures in this or any 
other Act if approval
is obtained in advance from the Committees on Appropriations; for 
research and development; for making grants to conduct behavioral 
research in support of protective research and operations; not to exceed 
$20,000 for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
exceed $50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign 
law enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment 
in advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, $600,302,000: 
Provided, That $18,000,000 provided for protective travel shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000; Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $5,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
                           September 30, 1999.

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $8,068,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary of the 
Treasury in connection with law enforcement activities of a

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-490]]

Federal agency or a Department of the Treasury law enforcement 
organization in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated 
balances remaining in the Fund on September 30, 1999, shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
     Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services to 
employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
     Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1999 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
     Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 
United States Customs Service, and United States Secret Service may be 
transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any 
such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector General, 
Financial Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be 
transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any 
such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``the explosive in a fixed 
        shotgun shell'' and inserting ``an explosive'';
            (2) in paragraph (7), by striking ``the explosive in a fixed 
        metallic cartridge'' and inserting ``an explosive''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (16) and inserting the following:

    ``(16) The term `antique firearm' means--
            ``(A) any firearm (including any firearm with a matchlock, 
        flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system) 
        manufactured in or before 1898; or
            ``(B) any replica of any firearm described in subparagraph 
        (A) if such replica--
                    ``(i) is not designed or redesigned for using 
                rimfire or conventional centerfire fixed ammunition, or
                    ``(ii) uses rimfire or conventional centerfire fixed 
                ammunition which is no longer manufactured in the United 
                States and which is not readily available in the 
                ordinary channels of commercial trade; or
            ``(C) any muzzle loading rifle, muzzle loading shotgun, or 
        muzzle loading pistol, which is designed to use black powder, or 
        a black powder substitute, and which cannot use fixed

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-491]]

        ammunition. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term `antique 
        firearm' shall not include any weapon which incorporates a 
        firearm frame or receiver, any firearm which is converted into a 
        muzzle loading weapon, or any muzzle loading weapon which can be 
        readily converted to fire fixed ammunition by replacing the 
        barrel, bolt, breechblock, or any combination thereof.''.

    Sec. 116. Of the funds available for the purchase of law enforcement 
vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of the Treasury 
certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury bureau is 
consistent with the vehicle management principles: Provided, That the 
Secretary may delegate this authority to the Assistant Secretary for 
Management.
    Sec. 117. Exception to Immunity From Attachment or Execution. (a) 
Section 1610 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
but not limited to section 208(f) of the Foreign Missions Act (22 U.S.C. 
4308(f)), and except as provided in subparagraph (B), any property with 
respect to which financial transactions are prohibited or regulated 
pursuant to section 5(b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 
App. 5(b)), section 620(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2370(a)), sections 202 and 203 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1702), or any other proclamation, 
order, regulation, or license issued pursuant thereto, shall be subject 
to execution or attachment in aid of execution of any judgment relating 
to a claim for which a foreign state (including any agency or 
instrumentality or such state) claiming such property is not immune 
under section 1605(a)(7).
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if, at the time the property 
is expropriated or seized by the foreign state, the property has been 
held in title by a natural person or, if held in trust, has been held 
for the benefit of a natural person or persons.
    ``(2)(A) At the request of any party in whose favor a judgment has 
been issued with respect to a claim for which the foreign state is not 
immune under section 1605(a)(7), the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of State shall fully, promptly, and effectively assist any 
judgment creditor or any court that has issued any such judgment in 
identifying, locating, and executing against the property of that 
foreign state or any agency or instrumentality of such state.
    ``(B) In providing such assistance, the Secretaries--
            ``(i) may provide such information to the court under seal; 
        and
            ``(ii) shall provide the information in a manner sufficient 
        to allow the court to direct the United States Marshall's office 
        to promptly and effectively execute against that property.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1606 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after ``punitive damages'' the following: 
``, except any action under section 1605(a)(7) or 1610(f)''.
    (c) Effective Date <<NOTE: 28 USC 1610 note.>> .--The amendments 
made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply to any claim for which a 
foreign state is not immune under section 1605(a)(7) of title 28, United 
States Code, arising before, on, or after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-492]]

    (d) Waiver.-- <<NOTE: 28 USC 1610 note.>> The President may waive 
the requirements of this section in the interest of national security.

    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

  <<NOTE: Postal Service Appropriations Act, 1999.>> TITLE II--POSTAL 
SERVICE

                   Payments to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $71,195,000, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds 
provided shall be available for obligation until October 1, 1999: 
Provided further, That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind 
shall continue to be free: <<NOTE: 39 USC 403 note.>> Provided further, 
That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue at not 
less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be used to implement 
any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any officer or employee of 
any State or local child support enforcement agency, or any individual 
participating in a State or local program of child support enforcement, 
a fee for information requested or provided concerning an address of a 
postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in 
this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural and other 
small post offices in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1999.

    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1999''.

    <<NOTE: Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1999.>> TITLE III--
    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102, $250,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available for official expenses 
shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount shall 
revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, United 
States Code: Provided further, <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note. salaries and 
expenses>> That none of the funds made available for official expenses 
            shall be considered as taxable to the President.

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, periodicals, 
teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 to be expended 
and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed 
$19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President, $52,344,000: 
Provided, That $10,100,000

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-493]]

of the funds appropriated shall be available for reimbursements to the 
White House Communications Agency.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $8,061,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114:
Provided, That such amount shall not be available for expenses for 
domestic staff overtime.

    In addition, for necessary expenses for domestic staff overtime, 
$630,000: Provided, That such amount shall not become available for 
obligation until the Comptroller General of the United States notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations that (1) the Executive Office of the 
President has received, reviewed, and commented on the draft report of 
the General Accounting Office with respect to its audit of the Executive 
Residence at the White House; and (2) the General Accounting Office has 
     received the comments of the Executive Office of the President.

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount for 
reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall ensure 
that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable operating 
expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing such 
amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that such 
amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such notice: 
Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge interest and 
assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that is not 
reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest and 
penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United States 
Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States Code: 
Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and any 
accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the Executive Residence 
shall prepare and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not 
later than

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-494]]

90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report 
setting forth the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive 
Residence during the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount 
of such expenses, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
official and ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists 
of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount 
that has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of 
expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence 
that includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
              hire of passenger motor vehicles, $3,512,000.

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating, and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate, $334,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,666,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, 
$4,032,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-495]]

                        National Security Council

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,806,000.

                        Office of Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $28,350,000.

                     Office of Management and Budget

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $60,617,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the 
provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for 
the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except 
for testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, 
before the Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' 
Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided further, That the preceding 
shall not apply to printed hearings released by the Committees on 
Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' Affairs: Provided further, 
That the Director of OMB amends Section __.36 of OMB Circular A-110 to 
require Federal awarding agencies to ensure that all data produced under 
an award will be made available to the public through the procedures 
established under the Freedom of Information Act: Provided further, That 
if the agency obtaining the data does so solely at the request of a 
private party, the agency may authorize a reasonable user fee equaling 
the incremental cost of obtaining the data: Provided further, That OMB 
is directed to submit a report by March 31, 1999, to the Committees on 
Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the 
House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight that: (1) identifies 
specific paperwork reduction accomplishments expected, constituting 
annual five percent reductions in paperwork expected in fiscal year 1999 
and fiscal year 2000; and (2) issues guidance on the requirements of 5 
U.S.C. Sec. 801(a)(1) and (3); sections 804(3), and 808(2), including a 
standard new rule reporting form for use under section 801(a)(1)(A)-(B).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-496]]

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision of 
services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$48,042,000, of which $30,100,000 shall remain available until expended, 
consisting of $1,100,000 for policy research and evaluation, and 
$16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects, and $13,000,000 for 
the continued operation of the technology transfer program: Provided, 
That the $16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center 
shall be available for transfer to other Federal departments or 
agencies: <<NOTE: 21 USC 1702 note.>>  Provided further, That the Office 
is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real 
and personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, for 
the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $182,477,000 for 
drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for each 
of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which no 
less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local entities 
for drug control activities, which shall be obligated within 120 days of 
the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That funding shall be 
provided for existing High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas at no less 
than the total fiscal year 1998 level consisting of funding from this 
       account as well as the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 100-690, as amended, 
$214,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies
to carry out such activities: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $185,000,000 shall be to support a national media campaign to 
reduce and prevent drug use among young Americans: Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided for the support of a national media 
campaign may be obligated for the following purposes: to supplant 
current anti-drug community based coalitions; to supplant current pro 
bono public service time donated by national and local broadcasting 
networks; for partisan

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-497]]

political purposes; or to fund media campaigns that feature any elected 
officials, persons seeking elected office, cabinet-level officials, or 
other Federal officials employed pursuant to Schedule C of title 5, Code 
of Federal Regulations, section 213, absent advance notice to the 
Committees on Appropriations and the Senate Judiciary Committee: 
Provided further, That (1) ONDCP will require a pro bono match 
commitment up-front as part of its media buy from each and every seller 
of ad time and space, (2) ONDCP, or any agent acting on its behalf, may 
not obligate any funds for the creative development of advertisements 
from for-profit organizations, not including out-of-pocket production 
costs and talent re-use payments, unless (A) the advertisements are 
intended to reach a minority, ethnic or other special audience that 
cannot be obtained on a pro bono basis within the time frames required 
by ONDCP's advertising and buying agencies, and (B) ONDCP receives prior 
approval from the Committees on Appropriations, (3) ONDCP will submit 
within three months of enactment of this Act an implementation plan to 
the Committees on Appropriations to secure corporate sponsorship 
equaling 40 percent of the appropriated amount in fiscal year 1999, the 
definition of which is a contribution that is not received as a result 
of leveraging funds to receive said sponsorship, corporate sponsorship 
equaling 60 percent of the appropriated amount in fiscal year 2000, 
corporate sponsorship equaling 80 percent of the appropriated amount in 
fiscal year 2001, corporate sponsorship equaling 100 percent of the 
appropriated amount in fiscal year 2002, (4) the funds provided for the 
support of a national media campaign may be used to fund the purchase of 
media time and space, talent re-use payments, out-of-pocket advertising 
production costs, testing and evaluation of advertising, evaluation of 
the effectiveness of the media campaign, the negotiated fees for the 
winning bidder on the request for proposal recently issued by ONDCP, 
partnership with community, civic, and professional groups, and 
government organizations related to the media campaign, entertainment 
industry collaborations to fashion anti-drug messages in movies, 
television programming, and popular music, interactive (Internet and 
new) media projects/activities, public information (News Media 
Outreach), and corporate sponsorship/participation, (5) ONDCP shall not 
obligate funds provided for the national media campaign for fiscal year 
1999 until ONDCP has submitted the evaluation and results of Phase I of 
the campaign to the Committees on Appropriations, and may obligate not 
more than 75 percent of these funds until ONDCP has submitted the 
evaluation and results of Phase II of the campaign to the Committees on 
Appropriations, and (6) ONDCP is required to report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not only quarterly, but also to provide monthly itemized 
reports of all expenditures and obligations relating to the media 
campaign as well as the specific parameters of the national media 
campaign, and shall report to Congress within one year on the 
effectiveness of the national media campaign based upon the measurable 
outcomes provided to Congress previously: Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, $4,500,000 shall be available for transfer to the 
Agricultural Research Service for anti-drug research and related 
matters: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $20,000,000 shall 
be to continue a program of matching grants to drug-free communities, as 
authorized in the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997: Provided further, 
That of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-498]]

the funds provided, $5,000,000 shall be available for the chronic users 
study.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year, 
$1,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

   <<NOTE: Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999.>> TITLE IV--
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 1971, 
Public Law 92-28, $2,464,000.

                       Federal Election Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $36,500,000, of which no less 
than $4,402,500 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available 
for reception and representation expenses: Provided, That of the amounts 
appropriated for salaries and expenses, $1,120,000 may not be obligated 
until the Federal Election Commission submits a plan for approval to the 
House Committee on Appropriations for the expenditure of such funds.

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, $22,586,000: Provided, That public members of 
the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per 
diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for 
persons employed intermittently in the Government service, and 
compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-
Federal participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-499]]

                     General Services Administration

    For additional expenses necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), 
$450,018,000 to be deposited into the Fund. The revenues and collections 
deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of 
real property management and related activities not otherwise provided 
for, including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned 
and leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including 
grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for public 
buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase contract; in the 
aggregate amount of $5,605,018,000, of which: (1) $492,190,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction of additional projects 
at locations and at maximum construction improvement costs (including 
funds for sites and expenses and associated design and construction 
services) as follows:
            New construction:
                    Arkansas:
                          Little Rock, U.S. courthouse, $3,436,000
                    California:
                          San Diego, U.S. courthouse, $15,400,000
                          San Jose, U.S. courthouse, $10,800,000
                    Colorado:
                          Denver, U.S. courthouse, $83,959,000
                    District of Columbia:
                          Southeast Federal Center remediation, 
                      $10,000,000
                    Florida:
                          Jacksonville, U.S. courthouse, $86,010,000
                          Orlando, U.S. courthouse, $1,930,000
                    Massachusetts:
                          Springfield, U.S. courthouse, $5,563,000
                    Michigan:
                          Sault Sainte Marie, border station, $572,000
                    Mississippi:
                          Biloxi-Gulfport, U.S. courthouse, $7,543,000
                    Missouri:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-500]]

                          Cape Girardeau, U.S. courthouse, $2,196,000
                    Montana:
                          Babb, Piegan border station, $6,165,000
                    New York:
                          Brooklyn, U.S. courthouse, $152,626,000
                          New York, U.S. Mission to the United Nations, 
                      $3,163,000
                    Oregon:
                          Eugene, U.S. courthouse, $7,190,000
                    Tennessee:
                          Greenville, U.S. courthouse, $28,229,000
                    Texas:
                          Laredo, U.S. courthouse, $28,105,000
                    West Virginia:
                          Wheeling, U.S. courthouse, $29,303,000
                    Nationwide:
                          Non-prospectus, $10,000,000:

Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a 
greater amount: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law in order to rescind a General Services Administration 
property sale, the General Services Administration is authorized to re-
acquire that parcel of land on Block 111, East Denver, Denver, Colorado, 
which was sold at public auction by the Federal government to its 
present owner pursuant to paragraphs (6) and (7) of section 12 of Public 
Law 94-204 (43 U.S.C. 1611 note) at a price equivalent to the 1988 
auction sale price
plus the amount of cumulative consumer price index, pursuant to the 
methodology as used in Public Law 104-42, Sec. 107(a), from the closing 
date of the sale until the date of re-acquisition by the Federal 
government, offset by any net income received from the property by the 
present owner since the 1988 sale: Provided further, That the funds 
provided in Public Law 102-393 for Hilo, Hawaii, shall be expended for 
the planning and design of the Mauna Kea Astronomy Educational Center, 
notwithstanding Public Law 103-123, and of the funds provided not more 
than $475,000 is to be disbursed in this fiscal year: Provided further, 
That all funds for direct construction projects shall expire on 
September 30, 2000, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except for 
funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided further, That 
of the funds provided for non-prospectus construction projects, 
$2,100,000 shall be available until expended for acquisition, lease, 
construction, and equipping of flexiplace telecommuting centers: 
Provided further, That from the funds made available under this heading 
in this or prior Acts of Congress, the Administrator of General Services 
may purchase at a price he determines appropriate, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, property adjacent to the new courthouse 
currently under construction in Scranton, Pennsylvania; (2) $668,031,000 
shall remain available until expended, for repairs and alterations which 
includes associated design and construction services: Provided further, 
That of the amount provided, $161,500,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided further, That funds in the 
Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-501]]

Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by 
project as follows, except each project may be increased by an amount 
not to exceed 10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the 
Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount:

    Repairs and alterations:
            California:
                    San Francisco, Appraisers Building, $29,778,000
            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center, Building 25, 
                $29,351,000
            District of Columbia:
                    Federal Office Building, 10B, $13,844,000
                    Interstate Commerce Commission, Connecting Wing 
                Complex, Customs Building, Phase 3/3, $83,959,000
                    Old Executive Office Building, $25,210,000
                    Department of State, Phase 1, $29,779,000
            New York:
                    Brookhaven, Internal Revenue Service, Service 
                Center, $20,019,000
                    New York, U.S. Courthouse, 40 Foley Square, 
                $4,782,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Philadelphia, Byrne-Green, Federal Building-U.S. 
                Courthouse, $11,212,000
            Virginia:
                    Reston, J.W. Powell Building, $9,151,000
            Nationwide:
                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $25,000,000
                    Energy Program, $25,000,000
                    Design Program, $16,710,000
                    Basic Repairs and Alteration, $344,236,000:

Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', 
may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund 
authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided further, That all 
funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects shall expire on 
September 30, 2000, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except 
funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided further, That 
of the amount provided, $100,000 shall be used to address the lighting 
issues at the Byrne-Green Federal Courthouse in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania: Provided further, That of the amount provided in this or 
any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations, $1,600,000 shall be 
provided to complete the alterations required at the Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin Courthouse: Provided further, That of the amount provided in 
this or any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations, $1,100,000 may 
be used to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-502]]

provide a new fence surrounding the Suitland Federal Complex in 
Suitland, Maryland: Provided further, That $5,700,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading in Public Law 103-329 for the Holtsville, 
New York, IRS Service Center shall remain available until September 30, 
1999: Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior 
Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
the Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (3) $215,764,000 for installment acquisition payments 
including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain available 
until expended; (4) $2,583,261,000 for rental of space which shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided, $15,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999; and (5) $1,554,772,000 for building operations which 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided $68,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999: Provided further, That funds available to the 
General Services Administration shall not be available for expenses of 
any construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a 
prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, 
has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for 
each project for required expenses for <<NOTE: 40 USC 490i.>> the 
development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That for the 
purposes of this authorization, and hereafter, buildings constructed 
pursuant to the purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings 
Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to 
installment purchase contracts, and buildings under the control of 
another department or agency where alterations of such buildings are 
required in connection with the moving of such other department or 
agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under the control of 
the General Services Administration shall be considered to be federally 
owned buildings: Provided further, That funds available in the Federal 
Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special services 
to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) 
and amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard 
booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
United States Secret Service to perform its protective functions 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such 
revenues <<NOTE: 40 USC 872 note.>> and collections: Provided further, 
That the remaining balances and associated assets and liabilities of the 
Pennsylvania Avenue Activities account are hereby transferred to the 
Federal Buildings Fund to be effective October 1, 1998, and that all 
income earned after that effective date that would otherwise have been 
deposited to the Pennsylvania Avenue Activities account shall thereafter 
be deposited to the Federal Buildings Fund, to be available for the 
purposes authorized by Public Laws 104-134 and 104-208, notwithstanding 
subsection 210(f)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services 
Act, as amended: Provided further, That of the amount provided, $475,000 
shall be made available for the 1999 Women's World Cup Soccer event: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided, $600,000 shall be made 
available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-503]]

for the 1999 World Alpine Ski Championships: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 1999, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)(6)) in excess of $5,605,018,000 shall remain in the Fund and 
shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
                          appropriations Acts.

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide and 
internal responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $109,594,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated from this Act shall be available to 
convert the Old Post Office at 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue in Northwest 
Washington, D.C., from office use to any other use until a comprehensive 
plan, which shall include street-level retail use, has been approved by 
the Senate Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on 
Environment and Public Works: Provided further, That no funds from this 
Act shall be available to acquire by purchase, condemnation, or 
otherwise the leasehold rights of the existing lease with private 
parties at the Old Post Office prior to the approval of the 
comprehensive plan by the Senate Committee on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee 
on Environment and Public Works: Provided further, That $100,000 is 
provided to the property disposal activity for the Racine, Wisconsin, 
property transfer identified in General Services Administration General 
                         Provision section 409.

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,000,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $10,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-504]]

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,241,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
                      the provisions of such Acts.

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1999 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall be 
approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2000 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the
Judicial Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management 
and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the priorities of the Judicial 
Conference of the United States as set out in its approved 5-year 
construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal year 2000 request must be 
accompanied by a standardized courtroom utilization study of each 
facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.

    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance of 
pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the 
extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', claims against the Government 
of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in 
other construction projects with prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-505]]

    Sec. 408. From the funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', in addition to amounts provided 
in budget activities above, up to $5,000,000 shall be available for the 
demolition, cleanup and conveyance of the property at block 35 and lot 2 
of block 36 in Anchorage, Alaska: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Administrator of General Services shall, not 
later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, demolish 
and remove all buildings, structures and other fixtures on the property 
at block 35 and lot 2 of block 36, Anchorage Original Townsite East 
Addition, Anchorage, Alaska, excluding any portion dedicated for use by 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Provided further, That 
the remediation of said parcel shall include the removal of all 
asbestos, lead and any other contamination, and restoration of the 
property, to the extent practicable, to an undeveloped condition: 
Provided further, That upon completion of the activities required for 
the demolition and removal of buildings, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Administrator of General Services shall convey to 
the municipality of Anchorage, without reimbursement, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States to the property.
    Sec. 409. The Administrator of General Services may convey to the 
City of Racine, Wisconsin, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to a parcel of excess real property, including 
improvements thereon, that is located on 2310 Center Street, commencing 
at the intersection of the North line of 24th Street and the center line 
of Center Street, being the point of the beginning; thence Northerly 
along the center line of Center Street, 426 feet to the South line of 
23rd Street extended East; thence Westerly along the South line of 23rd 
Street extended East; 325 feet to the West line of Franklin Street 
extended South; thence southerly along the West line of Franklin Street 
extended South to a point on the North line of 24th Street; thence 
Easterly along the North line of 24th Street to the point of beginning 
located in Racine, Wisconsin, and which contains the U.S. Army Reserve 
Center.

    Sec. 410. Department of Transportation Headquarters. (a) In 
General.--The Administrator of General Services shall--
            (1) enter into an operating lease to acquire space for the 
        Department of Transportation headquarters; and
            (2) commence procurement of the lease not later than 
        November 1, 1998:

Provided, That the annual rent payment does not exceed $55,000,000.
    (b) Terms.--The authority granted in subsection (a) is effective 
only to the extent that the lease acquisition meets the guidelines for 
operating leases set forth in the joint statement of the managers for 
the conference report to the Balanced Budget Agreement of 1997, as 
determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 411. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
requirement under section 407 of Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-337-
38), that the Administrator of General Services charge user fees for 
flexiplace telecommuting centers that approximate commercial charges for 
comparable space and services but in no instance less than the amount 
necessary to pay the cost of establishing and operating such centers, 
shall not apply to the user fees charged for the period beginning 
October 1, 1996, and ending

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-506]]

September 30, 1998, for the telecommuting centers established as part of 
a pilot telecommuting demonstration program in the Washington, D.C. 
metropolitan area by Public Laws 102-393, 103-123, 103-329, 104-52, and 
104-208: Provided, That for these centers in the pilot demonstration 
program for the period beginning October 1, 1998, and ending September 
30, 2000, the Administrator shall charge fees for Federal agency use of 
a telecenter based on 50 percent of the Administrator's annual costs of 
operating the center, including the reasonable cost of replacement for 
furniture, fixtures, and equipment: Provided further, That effective 
October 1, 2000, the Administrator shall charge fees for Federal agency 
use of the demonstration telecommuting centers based on 100 percent of 
the annual operating costs, including the reasonable cost of replacement 
for furniture, fixtures, and equipment: Provided further, That, to the 
extent such user charges do not cover the Administrator's costs in 
operating these centers, appropriations to the General Services 
Administration are authorized to reimburse the Federal Buildings Fund 
for any loss of revenue.
    Sec. 412. (a) Authority To Convey.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Administrator of General Services shall convey to the 
        University of Miami, by negotiated sale or by negotiated land 
        exchange and by not later than September 30, 1999, all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in and to the property 
        described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Property described.--The property referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is real property in Miami-Dade County, Florida, 
        including improvements thereon, comprising the Federal facility 
        known as the United States Naval Observatory/Alternate Time 
        Service Laboratory, consisting of approximately 76 acres. The 
        exact acreage and legal description of the property shall be 
        determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the 
        Administrator.

    (b) Condition Regarding Use.--Any conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the condition that during the 10-year period 
beginning on the date of the conveyance, the University shall use the 
property, or provide for use of the property, only for--
            (1) a research, education, and training facility 
        complementary to longstanding national research missions, 
        subject to such incidental exceptions as may be approved by the 
        Administrator;
            (2) research-related purposes other than the use specified 
        in paragraph (1), under an agreement entered into by the 
        Administrator and the University; or
            (3) a combination of uses described in paragraph (1) and 
        paragraph (2), respectively.

    (c) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Administrator may require 
such additional terms and conditions with respect to the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Administrator considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.
    (d) Reversion.--If the Administrator determines at any time that the 
property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance 
with this section, all right, title, and interest in and to the 
property, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United 
States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry 
thereon.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-507]]

    Sec. 413. The Administrator of General Services is directed to 
reincorporate the elements of the original proposed design for the 
facade of the United States Courthouse, London, Kentucky, project into 
the revised design of the building in order to ensure compatibility of 
this new facility with the historic U.S. Courthouse in London, Kentucky, 
to maintain the stateliness of the building. Construction or design of 
the London, Kentucky, project should not be diminished in any way to 
achieve this goal.

                  Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1997, $4,250,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $3,000,000 will be for capitalization of the Fund, and 
$1,250,000 will be for annual operating expenses.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct procurement 
of survey printing, $25,805,000, together with not to exceed $2,430,000 
for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, and for the 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $224,614,000: Provided, That of the 
amount provided, $7,861,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999: Provided further, That the Archivist of the United 
States is authorized to use any excess funds available from the amount 
borrowed for construction of the National Archives facility, for 
      expenses necessary to provide adequate storage for holdings.

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $11,325,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $2,000,000 is for an architectural 
and engineering study for the renovation of the Archives I facility, of 
which $4,000,000 is for encasement of the Charters of Freedom, and of 
which $875,000 is for a requirements

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-508]]

study and design of the National Archives Anchorage, Alaska, facility.

         National Historical Publications and Records Commission

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amount provided, $4,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
September 30, 1999.

                       Office of Government Ethics

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to 
exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$8,492,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $85,350,000; and in 
addition $91,236,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs: Provided, 
That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the authority 
to use applicable trust funds as provided by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of 
title 5, United States Code: Provided further, That, except as may be 
consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made 
from the Employees Health Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or 
other provider of health care services or supplies who is, at the time 
such services or supplies are provided to an individual covered under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 
1128 or 1128A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 through

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-509]]

1320a-7a), from participation in any program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395 et seq.): Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit 
of the Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive 
Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: 
Provided further, That the President's Commission on White House 
Fellows, established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, 
may, during fiscal year 1999, accept donations of money, property, and 
personal services in connection with the development of a publicity 
brochure to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of 
  travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,145,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel Management's 
retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from the 
appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
                         Columbia and elsewhere.

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
                 amended, such sums as may be necessary.

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
           United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, <<NOTE: 33 USC 776.>>  That annuities authorized by 
the Act of May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as 
amended (33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil 
Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-510]]

                        Office of Special Counsel

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, $8,720,000.

                         United States Tax Court

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,765,000: <<NOTE: 26 USC 
7443 note.>>  Provided, That travel expenses of the judges shall be paid 
upon the written certificate of the judge.

    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
     Sec. 502. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 1999 for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the Treasury.

    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has within 
90 days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-511]]

not more than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as 
still qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not 
been restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in 
expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 509. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefit program which 
provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 510. The provision of section 509 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 1999 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 1999 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2000, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-512]]

    Sec. 513. Funds provided in this Act may be used to initiate or 
continue projects or activities to the extent necessary, consistent with 
existing agency plans, to achieve Year 2000 (Y2K) computer conversion 
until such time as supplemental appropriations are made available for 
that purpose: Provided, That the program, project, or activity from 
which funds are obligated for Y2K conversion activities shall be 
reimbursed when such supplemental appropriations are made available.
    Sec. 515. Hereafter, any payment of attorneys fees, costs, and 
sanctions required to be made by the Federal Government pursuant to the 
order of the district court in the case Association of American 
Physicians and Surgeons, Inc. v. Clinton, 989 F. Supp. 8 (1997), or any 
appeal of such case, shall be derived by transfer from amounts made 
available in this or any other Act for any fiscal year for 
``Compensation of the President and the White House Office--Salaries and 
Expenses''.
    Sec. 516. Notwithstanding Section 515 of Public Law 104-208, fifty 
percent of the unobligated balances available to the White House Office, 
Salaries and Expenses appropriations in fiscal year 1997, shall remain 
available through September 30, 1999, for the purposes of satisfying the 
conditions of Section 515 of this Act.
    Sec. 517. The Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National 
Environmental and Native American Public Policy Act of 1992, as amended 
(20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), is amended as follows:
             <<NOTE: 20 USC 5607b.>> (a) in section 11, by--
                    (1) deleting the heading and inserting ``Use of the 
                Institute by a Federal Agency or Other Entity.''; and
                    (2) adding the following new subsection at the end:

    ``(e) Non-Federal Entities.--
            ``(1) Non-Federal entities, including state and local 
        governments, Native American tribal governments, nongovernmental 
        organizations and persons, as defined in 1 U.S.C. 1, may use the 
        Foundation and the Institute to provide assessment, mediation, 
        or other related services in connection with a dispute or 
        conflict involving the Federal government related to the 
        environment, public lands, or natural resources.
            ``(2) Payment into the environmental dispute resolution 
        fund.--Entities utilizing services pursuant to this subsection 
        shall reimburse the Institute for the costs of services 
        provided. Such amounts shall be deposited into the Environmental 
        Dispute Resolution Fund established under section 10.''; and
             <<NOTE: 20 USC 5608.>> (b) in section 12, by:
                    (1) deleting ``In General--'' and inserting ``(a) In 
                General--''; and
                    (2) adding the following new subsection:

    ``(b) The Institute.--The authorities set forth above shall, with 
the exception of paragraph (4), apply to the Institute established 
pursuant to section 10.''; and
            (c) in section <<NOTE: 20 USC 5607a.>> 10(b), by adding 
        before the period as follows: ``, including not to exceed $1,000 
        annually for official reception and representation expenses''.

    Sec. 518. The cost accounting standards promulgated under section 26 
of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public Law 93-400; 41 
U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect to a contract under the Federal 
Employees Health Benefits Program established under chapter 89 of title 
5, United States Code.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-513]]

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of employees 
serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness of said 
employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 40 USC 490b note.>> 31 U.S.C. 
1345, any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States 
which provides or proposes to provide child care services for Federal 
employees may, in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, reimburse any Federal 
employee or any person employed to provide such services for travel, 
transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training classes, 
conferences, or other meetings in connection with the provision of such 
services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant to this 
section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations prescribed 
pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.

    Sec. 604. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>>  Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), 
for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall 
be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed 
$3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for special 
heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this 
section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or 
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles.

    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 606. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3101 note.>>  Unless otherwise specified 
during the current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States (including 
any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government 
of the United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is 
a person in the service of the United States on

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-514]]

the date of enactment of this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, 
has filed a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United 
States prior to such date and is actually residing in the United States; 
(3) is a person who owes allegiance to the United States; (4) is an 
alien from Cuba, Poland, South Vietnam, the countries of the former 
Soviet Union, or the Baltic countries lawfully admitted to the United 
States for permanent residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or 
Laotian refugee paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or 
(6) is a national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for 
adjustment of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 
1992: Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit 
signed by any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that 
the requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition 
to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of existing law: 
Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or employee 
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in 
action by the Federal Government. This section shall not apply to 
citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic of the Philippines, or to 
nationals of those countries allied with the United States in a current 
defense effort, or to international broadcasters employed by the United 
States Information Agency, or to temporary employment of translators, or 
to temporary employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as 
a result of emergencies.

    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior to 
        the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-515]]

Code, shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds 
are otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services 
in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available: Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for
which he or she has been nominated after the Senate has voted not to 
approve the nomination of said person.

    Sec. 611. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards (except 
Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, or similar 
groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which do not have 
a prior and specific statutory approval to receive financial support 
from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 612. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and such 
guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of special 
policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or 
occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the same 
actions as the Administrator of General Services may take under the 
provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended 
(62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto penal 
consequences under the authority and within the limits provided in 
section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
    Sec. 614. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>>  (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 1999, by this or 
any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described 
in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 614 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 1998, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 1999, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
        schedule in accordance with such section 614; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1999, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-516]]

                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1999 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1999 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments which was 
                effective in fiscal year 1998 under such section.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1998,
shall be determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of 
Personnel Management.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1998, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1998.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life 
insurance, or any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the basis 
of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this section shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions to 
the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines that 
such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of 
qualified employees.
    Sec. 615. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. For the purposes 
of this section, the word ``office'' shall include the entire suite of 
offices assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used 
primarily by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled 
by the individual.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-517]]

    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, except 
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain 
the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other 
agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center 
facilities.
    Sec. 617. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1999 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 618. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 3302 
of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the Office of 
Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee that the 
Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in order to 
detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
        the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of the 
        Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing intelligence 
        functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.

    Sec. 619. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1999 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual harassment 
and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in 
Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including employees 
of the Executive Office of the President, not directly

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-518]]

responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and duties: 
Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family of the 
President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State of a 
foreign country or their designees, persons providing assistance to the 
President for official purposes, or other individuals so designated by 
the President.
    Sec. 621. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5303 note.>>  For purposes of each provision 
of law amended by section 704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (5 
U.S.C. 5318 note), no adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United 
States Code, shall be considered to have taken effect in fiscal year 
1999 in the rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems.

    Sec. 622. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines that 
noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act. Any waiver granted by the Chief Information Officer shall 
be reported to the Office of Management and Budget, and copies shall be 
provided to Congress.
    Sec. 623. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or merchandise mined, 
produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, as 
determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1307).
    Sec. 624. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5546 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no part of any funds provided by this Act or any other 
Act beginning in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter shall be available for 
paying Sunday premium pay to any employee unless such employee actually 
performed work during the time corresponding to such premium pay.

    Sec. 625. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of 
        the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-519]]

        or employee with any Member, committee, or subcommittee of the 
        Congress as described in paragraph (1).

    Sec. 626. Section 626(b) of the Treasury, Postal Service, and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1997, as contained in section 
101(f) of Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-360), the Omnibus 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, is amended to read as follows: 
``(b) Until September 30, 1999, or until the end of the current FTS 2000 
contracts, whichever is earlier, subsection (a) shall continue to apply 
to the use of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act.''.
    Sec. 627. (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``crime of violence'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 16 of title 18, United States Code; and
            (2) the term ``law enforcement officer'' means any employee 
        described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 8401(17) 
        of title 5, United States Code; and any special agent in the 
        Diplomatic Security Service of the Department of State.

    (b) Rule of Construction.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, or any 
other provision of law relating to tort liability, a law enforcement 
officer shall be construed to be acting within the scope of his or her 
office or employment, if the officer takes reasonable action, including 
the use of force, to--
            (1) protect an individual in the presence of the officer 
        from a crime of violence;
            (2) provide immediate assistance to an individual who has 
        suffered or who is threatened with bodily harm; or
            (3) prevent the escape of any individual who the officer 
        reasonably believes to have committed in the presence of the 
        officer a crime of violence.

    Sec. 628. Federal Firefighters Overtime Pay Reform Act of 1998. (a) 
In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in section 5542 by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(f) In applying subsection (a) of this section with respect to a 
firefighter who is subject to section 5545b--
            ``(1) such subsection shall be deemed to apply to hours of 
        work officially ordered or approved in excess of 106 hours in a 
        biweekly pay period, or, if the agency establishes a weekly 
        basis for overtime pay computation, in excess of 53 hours in an 
        administrative workweek; and
            ``(2) the overtime hourly rate of pay is an amount equal to 
        one and one-half times the hourly rate of basic pay under 
        section 5545b (b)(1)(A) or (c)(1)(B), as applicable, and such 
        overtime hourly rate of pay may not be less than such hourly 
        rate of basic pay in applying the limitation on the overtime 
        rate provided in paragraph (2) of such subsection (a).''; and
            (2) by inserting after section 5545a the following new 
        section:

``Sec. 5545b. Pay for firefighters

    ``(a) This section applies to an employee whose position is 
classified in the firefighter occupation in conformance with the GS-081 
standard published by the Office of Personnel Management, and whose 
normal work schedule, as in effect throughout the year,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-520]]

consists of regular tours of duty which average at least 106 hours per 
biweekly pay period.
    ``(b)(1) If the regular tour of duty of a firefighter subject to 
this section generally consists of 24-hour shifts, rather than a basic 
40-hour workweek (as determined under regulations prescribed by the 
Office of Personnel Management), section 5504(b) shall be applied as 
follows in computing pay--
            ``(A) paragraph (1) of such section shall be deemed to 
        require that the annual rate be divided by 2756 to derive the 
        hourly rate; and
            ``(B) the computation of such firefighter's daily, weekly, 
        or biweekly rate shall be based on the hourly rate under 
        subparagraph (A);

    ``(2) For the purpose of sections 5595(c), 5941, 8331(3), and 
8704(c), and for such other purposes as may be expressly provided for by 
law or as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation 
prescribe, the basic pay of a firefighter subject to this subsection 
shall include an amount equal to the firefighter's basic hourly rate (as 
computed under paragraph (1)(A)) for all hours in such firefighter's 
regular tour of duty (including overtime hours).
    ``(c)(1) If the regular tour of duty of a firefighter subject to 
this section includes a basic 40-hour workweek (as determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management), section 
5504(b) shall be applied as follows in computing pay--
            ``(A) the provisions of such section shall apply to the 
        hours within the basic 40-hour workweek;
            ``(B) for hours outside the basic 40-hour workweek, such 
        section shall be deemed to require that the hourly rate be 
        derived by dividing the annual rate by 2756; and
            ``(C) the computation of such firefighter's daily, weekly, 
        or biweekly rate shall be based on subparagraphs (A) and (B), as 
        each applies to the hours involved.

    ``(2) For purposes of sections 5595(c), 5941, 8331(3), and 8704(c), 
and for such other purposes as may be expressly provided for by law or 
as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation prescribe, the 
basic pay of a firefighter subject to this subsection shall include--
            ``(A) an amount computed under paragraph (1)(A) for the 
        hours within the basic 40-hour workweek; and
            ``(B) an amount equal to the firefighter's basic hourly rate 
        (as computed under paragraph (1)(B)) for all hours outside the 
        basic 40-hour workweek that are within such firefighter's 
        regular tour of duty (including overtime hours).

    ``(d)(1) A firefighter who is subject to this section shall receive 
overtime pay in accordance with section 5542, but shall not receive 
premium pay provided by other provisions of this subchapter.
    ``(2) For the purpose of applying section 7(k) of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to a firefighter who is subject to this section, 
no violation referred to in such section 7(k) shall be deemed to have 
occurred if the requirements of section 5542(a) are met, applying 
section 5542(a) as provided in subsection (f) of that section: Provided, 
That the overtime hourly rate of pay for such firefighter shall in all 
cases be an amount equal to one and one-half times the firefighter's 
hourly rate of basic pay under subsection (b)(1)(A) or (c)(1)(B) of this 
section, as applicable.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-521]]

    ``(3) The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations, 
with respect to firefighters subject to this section, that would permit 
an agency to reduce or eliminate the variation in the amount of 
firefighters' biweekly pay caused by work scheduling cycles that result 
in varying hours in the regular tours of duty from pay period to pay 
period. Under such regulations, the pay that a firefighter would 
otherwise receive for regular tours of duty over the work scheduling 
cycle shall, to the extent practicable, remain unaffected.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 5545a the following:

``5545b. Pay for firefighters.''.

    (c) Training.--Section 4109 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), a firefighter who is 
subject to section 5545b of this title shall be paid
basic pay and overtime pay for the firefighter's regular tour of duty 
while attending agency sanctioned training.''.

    (d) Inclusion in Basic Pay for Federal Retirement.--Section 8331(3) 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after subparagraph (D);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (G);
            (3) by inserting the following:
                    ``(E) with respect to a criminal investigator, 
                availability pay under section 5545a of this title;
                    ``(F) pay as provided in section 5545b(b)(2) and 
                (c)(2); and ''; and
            (4) by striking ``subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E)'' and 
        inserting ``subparagraphs (B) through (G)''.

    (e) <<NOTE: 5 USC 4109 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first 
applicable pay period which begins on or after October 1, 1998.

     <<NOTE: 5 USC 5545b note.>> (f) Regulations.--Under regulations 
prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management, a firefighter subject 
to section 5545b of title 5, United States Code, as added by this 
section, whose regular tours of duty average 60 hours or less per 
workweek and do not include a basic 40-hour workweek, shall, upon 
implementation of this section, be granted an increase in basic pay 
equal to 2 step-increases of the applicable General Schedule grade, and 
such increase shall not be an equivalent increase in pay. If such 
increase results in a change to a longer waiting period for the 
firefighter's next step increase, the firefighter shall be credited with 
an additional year of service for the purpose of such waiting period. If 
such increase results in a rate of basic pay which is above the maximum 
rate of the applicable grade, such resulting pay rate shall be treated 
as a retained rate of basic pay in accordance with section 5363 of title 
5, United States Code.

     <<NOTE: 5 USC 5545b note.>> (g) No Reduction in Regular Pay.--Under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management, the 
regular pay (over the established work scheduling cycle) of a 
firefighter subject to section 5545b of title 5, United States Code, as 
added by this section, shall not be reduced as a result of the 
implementation of this section.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-522]]

    Sec. 629. (1) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, 
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney General shall conduct a 
joint review of Federal efforts and submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, including the Committees on Appropriations, a 
plan to improve coordination among the Federal agencies with 
responsibility to protect the borders against drug trafficking. The 
review shall also include consideration of Federal agencies' 
coordination with State and local law enforcement agencies. The plan 
shall include an assessment and action plan, including the activities of 
the following departments and agencies:
            (A) Department of the Treasury;
            (B) Department of Justice;
            (C) United States Coast Guard;
            (D) Department of Defense;
            (E) Department of Transportation;
            (F) Department of State; and
            (G) Department of Interior.

    (2) The purpose of the plan under paragraph (1) is to maximize the 
effectiveness of the border control efforts in achieving the objectives 
of the national drug control strategy in a manner that is also 
consistent with the goal of facilitating trade. In order to maximize the 
effectiveness, the plan shall:
            (A) specify the methods used to enhance cooperation, 
        planning and accountability among the Federal, State, and local 
        agencies with responsibilities along the Southwest border;
            (B) specify mechanisms to ensure cooperation among the 
        agencies, including State and local agencies, with 
        responsibilities along the Southwest border;
            (C) identify new technologies that will be used in 
        protecting the borders including conclusions regarding 
        appropriate deployment of technology;
            (D) identify new initiatives for infrastructure 
        improvements;
            (E) recommend reinforcements in terms of resources, 
        technology and personnel necessary to ensure capacity to 
        maintain appropriate inspections;
            (F) integrate findings of the White House Intelligence 
        Architecture Review into the plan; and
            (G) make recommendations for strengthening the HIDTA program 
        along the Southwest border.

    Sec. 630. <<NOTE: 40 USC 490 note.>>  (a) Flexiplace Work 
Telecommuting Programs.--For fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, of the funds made available to each Executive agency for 
salaries and expenses, at a minimum $50,000 shall be available only for 
the necessary expenses of the Executive agency to carry out a flexiplace 
work telecommuting program.

    (b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' means 
        the following list of departments and agencies: Department of 
        State, Treasury, Defense, Justice, Interior, Labor, Health and 
        Human Services, Agriculture, Commerce, Housing and Urban 
        Development, Transportation, Energy, Education, Veterans' 
        Affairs, General Services Administration, Office of Personnel 
        Management, Small Business Administration, Social Security 
        Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Postal 
        Service.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-523]]

            (2) Flexiplace work telecommuting program.--The term 
        ``flexiplace work telecommuting program'' means a program under 
        which employees of an Executive agency are permitted to perform 
        all or a portion of their duties at a flexiplace work 
        telecommuting center established under section 210(l) of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 
        U.S.C. 490(l)) or other Federal law.

    Sec. 631. (a) Meritorious Executive.--Section 4507(e)(1) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``$10,000'' and inserting 
``an amount equal to 20 percent of annual basic pay''.
    (b) Distinguished Executive.--Section 4507(e)(2) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``$20,000'' and inserting ``an 
amount equal to 35 percent of annual basic pay''.
     <<NOTE: 5 USC 4507 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on October 1, 1998, or the date of 
enactment of this Act, whichever is later.

    Sec. 632. (a) Career SES Performance Awards.--Section 5384(b)(3) of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``3 percent'' and inserting ``10 percent''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``15 percent'' and inserting ``20 percent''.

     <<NOTE: 5 USC 5384 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on October 1, 1998, or the date of 
enactment of this Act, whichever is later.

    Sec. 633. (a) International Postal Arrangements.--Section 407 of 
title 39, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

``Sec.  407. International Postal Arrangements.

    ``(a)(1) The Secretary of State shall have primary responsibility 
for formulation, coordination and oversight of policy with respect to 
United States participation in the Universal Postal Union, including the 
Universal Postal Convention and other Acts of the Universal Postal 
Union, amendments thereto, and all postal treaties and conventions 
concluded within the framework of the Convention and such Acts.
    ``(2) Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary may, with the consent 
of the President, negotiate and conclude treaties, conventions and 
amendments referred to in paragraph (1).
    ``(b)(1) Subject to subsections (a), (c), and (d), the Postal 
Service may, with the consent of the President, negotiate and conclude 
postal treaties and conventions.
    ``(2) The Postal Service may, with the consent of the President, 
establish rates of postage or other charges on mail matter conveyed 
between the United States and other countries.
    ``(3) The Postal Service shall transmit a copy of each postal treaty 
or convention concluded with other governments under the authority of 
this subsection to the Secretary of State, who shall furnish a copy to 
the Public Printer for publication.
    ``(c) The Postal Service shall not conclude any treaty or convention 
under the authority of this section or any other arrangement related to 
the delivery of international postal services that is inconsistent with 
any policy developed pursuant to subsection (a).
    ``(d) In carrying out their responsibilities under this section, the 
Secretary and the Postal Service shall consult
with such federal agencies as the Secretary or the Postal Service 
considers appropriate, private providers of international postal 
services, users of international postal services, the general public, 
and such other

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-524]]

persons as the Secretary or the Postal Service considers appropriate.''.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that any treaty, 
convention or amendment entered into under the authority of section 407 
of title 39 of the United States Code, as amended by this section, 
should not grant any undue or unreasonable preference to the Postal 
Service, a private provider of postal services, or any other person.
    (c) Trade-In-Service Programs.--The second sentence of paragraph (5) 
of section 306(a) of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984 (19 U.S.C. 
2114b(5)) is amended by inserting ``postal and delivery services,'' 
after ``transportation.''
    (d)  <<NOTE: 39 USC 407 note.>> Transfer of Funds.--In fiscal year 
1999 and each fiscal year hereafter, the Postal Service shall allocate 
to the Department of State from any funds available to the Postal 
Service such sums as may be reasonable, documented and auditable for the 
Department of State to carry out the activities of Section 407 of title 
39 of the United States Code.

    Sec. 634. <<NOTE: 5 USC 7301 note.>> Notwithstanding any provision 
of law, the President, or his designee, must certify to Congress, 
annually, that no person or persons with direct or indirect 
responsibility for administering the Executive Office of the President's 
Drug-Free Workplace Plan are themselves subject to a program of 
individual random drug testing.

    Sec. 635. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 636. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1999 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard 
Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, 
form, or agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain 
the following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and 
do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing 
disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) 
of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-525]]

disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or 
safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 
U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose 
confidential Government
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, 
and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by 
said Executive order and listed statutes are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to 
be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or 
intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or officer of the 
United States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the 
particular activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or 
agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose 
any classified information received in the course of such activity 
unless specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. 
Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.

    Sec. 637. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity 
or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 638. (a) In General.--For calendar year 2000, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall prepare and submit to 
Congress, with the budget submitted under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, an accounting statement and associated report 
containing--
            (1) an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits 
        (including quantifiable and nonquantifiable effects) of Federal 
        rules and paperwork, to the extent feasible--
                    (A) in the aggregate;
                    (B) by agency and agency program; and
                    (C) by major rule;
            (2) an analysis of impacts of Federal regulation on State, 
        local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and 
        economic growth; and
            (3) recommendations for reform.

    (b) Notice.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide public notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
statement and report under subsection (a) before the statement and 
report are submitted to Congress.
    (c) Guidelines.--To implement this section, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines to agencies to 
standardize--
            (1) measures of costs and benefits; and
            (2) the format of accounting statements.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-526]]

    (d) Peer Review.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide for independent and external peer review of the 
guidelines and each accounting statement and associated report under 
this section. Such peer review shall not be subject to the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 639. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or that such disclosure has 
been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.

    Sec. 640. <<NOTE: 18 USC 846 note.>>  The Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized to establish scientific certification standards for 
explosives detection canines, and shall provide, on a reimbursable 
basis, for the certification of explosives detection canines employed by 
Federal agencies, or other agencies providing explosives detection 
services at airports in the United States.

    Sec. 641. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing or 
telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 642. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 643. The Director of the United States Marshals Service is 
directed to conduct a quarterly threat assessment on the Director of the 
Office of National Drug Control Policy.
    Sec. 644. <<NOTE: 5 USC note prec. 5941.>>  Section 636(c) of Public 
Law 104-208 is amended as follows:
            (1) In subparagraph (1) by inserting after ``United States 
        Code'' the following: ``any agency or court in the Judicial 
        Branch,'';
            (2) In subparagraph (2) by amending ``prosecution, or 
        detention'' to read: ``prosecution, detention, or supervision''; 
        and
            (3) In subparagraph (3) by inserting after ``title 5,'' the 
        following: ``and, with regard to the Judicial Branch, mean a 
        justice or judge of the United States as defined in 28 U.S.C. 
        451 in regular active service or retired from regular active 
        service, other judicial officers as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States, and supervisors and managers 
        within the Judicial Branch as authorized by the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States,''.

    Sec. 645. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.

    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-527]]

proportion of such employee's time in the performance of official 
duties.
    Sec. 646. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Treasury is authorized to, upon submission of proper 
documentation (as determined by the Secretary), reimburse importers of 
large capacity military magazine rifles as defined in the Treasury 
Department's April 6, 1998 ``Study on the Sporting Suitability of 
Modified Semiautomatic Assault Rifles'', for which authority had been 
granted to import such firearms into the United States on or before 
November 14, 1997, and released under bond to the importer by the U.S. 
Customs Service on or before February 10, 1998: Provided, That the 
importer abandons title to the firearms to the United States: Provided 
further, That reimbursements are submitted to the Secretary for his 
approval within 120 days of enactment of this provision. In no event 
shall reimbursements under this provision exceed the importers cost for 
the weapons, plus any shipping, transportation, duty, and storage costs 
related to the importation of such weapons.
Money made available for expenditure under 31 U.S.C. section 1304(a) in 
an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for reimbursements 
under this provision: Provided, That accepting the compensation provided 
under this provision is final and conclusive and constitutes a complete 
release of any and all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action 
whatsoever against the United States, its agencies, officers, or 
employees arising from the denial by the Department of the Treasury of 
the entry of such firearms into the United States. Such compensation is 
not otherwise required by law and is not intended to create or recognize 
any legally enforceable right to any person.

    Sec. 647. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5303 note.>>  (a) The adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 
1999 under sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be an increase of 3.6 percent.

    (b) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 648. International Mail Reporting Requirement. (a) In 
General.--Chapter 36 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
adding after section 3662 the following:

``Sec. 3663. Annual report on international services

    ``(a) Not later than July 1 of each year, the Postal Rate Commission 
shall transmit to each House of Congress a comprehensive report of the 
costs, revenues, and volumes accrued by the Postal Service in connection 
with mail matter conveyed between the United States and other countries 
for the previous fiscal year.
    ``(b) Not later than March 15 of each year, the Postal Service shall 
provide to the Postal Rate Commission such data as the Commission may 
require to prepare the report required under subsection (a) of this 
section. Data shall be provided in sufficient detail to enable the 
Commission to analyze the costs, revenues, and volumes for each 
international mail product or service, under the methods determined 
appropriate by the Commission for the analysis of rates for domestic 
mail.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-528]]

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 63 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding after 
the item relating to section 3662 the following:

``3663. Annual report on international services.''.

    Sec. 649. Extension of Sunset Provision. Section 2(f)(2) of the 
Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. 922 note) is amended by 
striking ``(2)'' and all that follows through ``10 years'' and inserting 
the following:
            ``(2) Sunset.--Effective 15 years''.

    Sec. 650. Importation of Certain Grains. (a) Findings.--The Congress 
finds that--
            (1) importation of grains into the United States at less 
        than the cost to produce those grains is causing injury to the 
        United States producers of those grains;
            (2) importation of grains into the United States at less 
        than the fair value of those grains is causing injury to the 
        United States producers of those grains;
            (3) the Canadian Government and the Canadian Wheat Board 
        have refused to disclose pricing and cost information necessary 
        to determine whether grains are being exported to the United 
        States at prices in violation of United States trade laws or 
        agreements.

    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) The Customs Service, consulting with the United States 
        Trade Representative and the Department of Commerce, shall 
        conduct a study of the efficiency and effectiveness of requiring 
        that all spring wheat, durum or barley imported into the United 
        States be imported into the United States through a single port 
        of entry.
            (2) The Customs Service shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and the House 
        Committee on Ways and Means not later than ninety days after the 
        effective date of this Act on the results of the study required 
        by paragraph (1).

    Sec. 651. Designation of Eugene J. McCarthy Post Office Building. 
(a) In General.--The building of the United States Postal Service 
located at 180 East Kellogg Boulevard in Saint Paul, Minnesota, shall be 
known and designated as the ``Eugene J. McCarthy Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Eugene J. 
McCarthy Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 652. The Administrator of General Services may provide, from 
government-wide credit card rebates, up to $3,000,000 in support of the 
Joint Financial Management Improvement Program as approved by the Chief 
Financial Officer's Council.
    Sec. 653. Section 6302(g) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting after ``chapter 35'' the following: ``or section 3595''.
    Sec. 654.  <<NOTE: 5 USC 601 note.>> Assessment of Federal 
Regulations and Policies on Families. (a) Purposes.--The purposes of 
this section are to--
            (1) require agencies to assess the impact of proposed agency 
        actions on family well-being; and
            (2) improve the management of executive branch agencies.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-529]]

            (1) the term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``Executive agency'' by section 105 of title 5, United States 
        Code, except such term does not include the General Accounting 
        Office; and
            (2) the term ``family'' means--
                    (A) a group of individuals related by blood, 
                marriage, adoption, or other legal custody who live 
                together as a single household; and
                    (B) any individual who is not a member of such 
                group, but who is related by blood, marriage, or 
                adoption to a member of such group, and over half of 
                whose support in a calendar year is received from such 
                group.

    (c) Family Policymaking Assessment.--Before implementing policies 
and regulations that may affect family well-being, each agency shall 
assess such actions with respect to whether--
            (1) the action strengthens or erodes the stability or safety 
        of the family and, particularly, the marital commitment;
            (2) the action strengthens or erodes the authority and 
        rights of parents in the education, nurture, and supervision of 
        their children;
            (3) the action helps the family perform its functions, or 
        substitutes governmental activity for the function;
            (4) the action increases or decreases disposable income or 
        poverty of families and children;
            (5) the proposed benefits of the action justify the 
        financial impact on the family;
            (6) the action may be carried out by State or local 
        government or by the family; and
            (7) the action establishes an implicit or explicit policy 
        concerning the relationship between the behavior and personal 
        responsibility of youth, and the norms of society.

    (d) Governmentwide Family Policy Coordination and Review.--
            (1) Certification and rationale.--With respect to each 
        proposed policy or regulation that may affect family well-being, 
        the head of each agency shall--
                    (A) submit a written certification to the Director 
                of the Office of Management and Budget and to Congress 
                that such policy or regulation has been assessed in 
                accordance with this section; and
                    (B) provide an adequate rationale for implementation 
                of each policy or regulation that may negatively affect 
                family well-being.
            (2) Office of management and budget.--The Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget shall--
                    (A) ensure that policies and regulations proposed by 
                agencies are implemented consistent with this section; 
                and
                    (B) compile, index, and submit annually to the 
                Congress the written certifications received pursuant to 
                paragraph (1)(A).
            (3) Office of policy development.--The Office of Policy 
        Development shall--
                    (A) assess proposed policies and regulations in 
                accordance with this section;
                    (B) provide evaluations of policies and regulations 
                that may affect family well-being to the Director of the 
                Office of Management and Budget; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-530]]

                    (C) advise the President on policy and regulatory 
                actions that may be taken to strengthen the institutions 
                of marriage and family in the United States.

    (e) Assessments Upon Request by Members of Congress.--Upon request 
by a Member of Congress relating to a proposed policy or regulation, an 
agency shall conduct an assessment in accordance with subsection (c), 
and shall provide a certification and rationale in accordance with 
subsection (d).
    (f) Judicial Review.--This section is not intended to create any 
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a 
party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any 
person.
    Sec. 655. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this Act or any 
other provision of law may be used for any system to implement section 
922(t) of title 18, United States Code, unless the system allows, in 
connection with a person's delivery of a firearm to a Federal firearms 
licensee as collateral for a loan, the background check to be performed 
at the time the collateral is offered for delivery to such licensee: 
Provided, That the licensee notifies local law enforcement within 48 
hours of the licensee receiving a denial on the person offering the 
collateral: Provided further, That the provisions of section 922(t) 
shall apply at the time of the redemption of the firearm.
      Sec. 656. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
      (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with:
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (a) SelectCare
                    (b) Personal CaresHMO
                    (c) Care Choices
                    (d) OSF Health Plans, Inc.
                    (e) Yellowstone Community Health Plan; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the plan objects to such 
        coverage on the basis of religious beliefs.
      (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe 
contraceptives because such activities would be contrary to the 
individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
      (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.

             TITLE VIII--TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 801. TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO DISTRICT OF 
            COLUMBIA RETIREMENT FUNDS.

    (a) Permitting Other Federal Entities To Administer Program.--
Section 11003 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (DC Code, sec. 1-761.2) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, and includes any 
        agreement with a department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
        United States entered into under that section'' after ``the 
        Trustee''; and
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking ``, partnership, joint 
        venture, corporation, mutual company, joint-stock company, 
        trust,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-531]]

        estate, unincorporated organization, association, or employee 
        organization'' and inserting ``; partnership; joint venture; 
        corporation; mutual company; joint-stock company; trust; estate; 
        unincorporated organization; association; employee organization; 
        or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States'' 

    (b) Permitting Waiver of Recovery of Amounts Paid in Error.--Section 
11021(3) of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-763.1(3)) is amended by inserting 
``, or waive recoupment or recovery of,'' after ``recover''.
    (c) Permitting Use of Trust Fund To Cover Administrative Expenses.--
Section 11032 of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-764.2) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

    ``(a) In General.--Amounts in the Trust Fund shall be used--
            ``(1) to make Federal benefit payments under this subtitle;
            ``(2) subject to subsection (b)(1), to cover the reasonable 
        and necessary expenses of administering the Trust Fund under the 
        contract entered into pursuant to section 11035(b);
            ``(3) to cover the reasonable and necessary administrative 
        expenses incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the Secretary 
        s responsibilities under this subtitle; and
            ``(4) for such other purposes as are specified in this 
        subtitle.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``(including expenses 
        described in section 11041(b))'' after ``to administer the Trust 
        Fund''.

    (d) Promoting Flexibility in Administration of Program.--Section 
11035 of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-764.5) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsections:

    ``(c) Subcontracts.--Notwithstanding any provision of a District 
Retirement Program or any other law, rule, or regulation, the Trustee 
may, with the approval of the Secretary, enter into one or more 
subcontracts with the District Government or any person to provide 
services to the Trustee in connection with its performance of the 
contract. The Trustee shall monitor the performance of any such 
subcontract and enforce its provisions.
    ``(d) Determination by the Secretary.--Notwithstanding subsection 
(b) or any other provision of this subtitle, the Secretary may 
determine, with respect to any function otherwise to be performed by the 
Trustee, that in the interest of economy and efficiency such function 
shall be performed by the Secretary rather than the Trustee.''.
    (e) Process for Reimbursement of District Government for Expenses of 
Interim Administration.--Section 11041 of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-
765.1) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``The Trustee shall'' and 
        inserting ``The Secretary or the Trustee shall, at such times 
        during or after the period of interim administration described 
        in subsection (a) as are deemed appropriate by the Secretary or 
        the Trustee'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``the Secretary or'' 
        after ``if''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``the replacement plan 
        adoption date'' and inserting ``such time as the Secretary

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-532]]

        notifies the District Government that the Secretary has directed 
        the Trustee to carry out the duties and responsibilities 
        required under the contract''.

    (f) Annual Federal Payment Into Federal Supplemental Fund.--Section 
11053 of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-766.3) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

    ``(a) Annual Amortization Amount.--At the end of each applicable 
fiscal year the Secretary shall promptly pay into the Federal 
Supplemental Fund from the General Fund of the Treasury an amount equal 
to the annual amortization amount for the year (which may not be less 
than zero).'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``freeze date'' and 
        inserting ``effective date of this Act'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d); and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(b) Administrative Expenses.--During each applicable fiscal year, 
the Secretary shall pay into the Federal Supplemental Fund from the 
General Fund of the Treasury amounts not to exceed the covered 
administrative expenses for the year.''.
    (g) Technical Corrections.--(1) Section 11012(c) of such Act (DC 
Code, sec. 1-752.2(c)) is amended by striking ``District of Columbia 
Retirement Board'' and inserting ``District Government''.
    (2) Section 11033(c)(1) of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-764.3(c)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``consisting'' in the first place that it appears.
    (3) Section 11052 of such Act (DC Code, sec. 1-766.2) is amended by 
inserting ``to'' after ``may be made only''.

SEC. 802. CLARIFYING TREATMENT OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEES 
            TRANSFERRED TO FEDERAL RETIREMENT SYSTEMS.

    (a) Eligibility of Nonjudicial Employees of District of Columbia 
Courts for Medicare and Social Security Benefits.--Section 11246(b) of 
the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 
755) <<NOTE: 26 USC 3121 note.>>  is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph <<NOTE: 26 USC 3121; 42 USC 
        410.>> (1) the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Conforming Amendments to Internal Revenue Code and 
        Social Security.--(A) Section 3121(b)(7)(C) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to the definition of employment 
        for service performed in the employ of the District of Columbia) 
        is amended by inserting `(other than the Federal Employees 
        Retirement System provided in chapter 84 of title 5, United 
        States Code)' after `law of the United States'.
            ``(B) Section 210(a)(7)(D) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 410(a)(7)(D)) (relating to the definition of employment 
        for service performed in the employ of the District of 
        Columbia), is amended by inserting `(other than the Federal 
        Employees Retirement System provided in chapter 84 of title 5, 
        United States Code)' after `law of the United States.''.

    (b) Vesting Under Previous District of Columbia Retirement 
Program.--For purposes of vesting pursuant to section 2610(b) of the 
District of Columbia Government Comprehensive

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-533]]

Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (DC Code, sec. 1-627.10(b)), creditable 
service with the District for employees whose participation in the 
District Defined Contribution Plan ceases as a result of the 
implementation of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 shall include--
            (1) continuous service performed by nonjudicial employees of 
        the District of Columbia courts after September 30, 1997; and
            (2) service performed for a successor employer, including 
        the Department of Justice or the District of Columbia Offender 
        Supervision, Defender, and Courts Services Agency established 
        under section 11233 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, that 
        provides services previously performed by the District 
        government.

SEC. 803. METHODOLOGY FOR DESIGNATING ASSETS OF RETIREMENT FUND.

    Section 11033 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (DC Code, sec. 1-
764.3) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Methodology for Designating Assets.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (b), the 
        Secretary may develop and implement a methodology for 
        designating assets after the replacement plan adoption date that 
        takes into account the value of the District Retirement Fund as 
        of the replacement plan adoption date and the proportion of such 
        value represented by $1.275 billion, together with the income 
        (including returns on investments) earned on the assets of and 
        withdrawals from and deposits to the Fund during the period 
        between such date and the date on which the Secretary designates 
        assets under subsection (b). In implementing a methodology under 
        the previous sentence, the Secretary shall not be required to 
        determine the value of designated assets as of the replacement 
        plan adoption date. Nothing in this paragraph may be deemed to 
        effect the entitlement of the District Retirement Fund to income 
        (including returns on investments) earned after the replacement 
        plan adoption date on assets designated for retention by the 
        Fund.
            ``(2) Employee contributions; judicial retirement and 
        survivors annuity fund.--The Secretary may develop and implement 
        a methodology comparable to the methodology described in 
        paragraph (1) in carrying out the requirements of subsection (c) 
        and in designating assets to be transferred to the District of 
        Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund pursuant 
        to section 124(c)(1) of the District of Columbia Retirement 
        Reform Act (as amended by section 11252).
            ``(3) Discretion of the secretary.--The Secretary's 
        development and implementation of methodologies for designating 
        assets under this subsection shall be final and binding.''.

SEC. 804. TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO JUDICIAL 
            RETIREMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Administration of Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity 
Fund.--Section 11-1570, District of Columbia Code, as amended by section 
11251 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, is amended as follows:
            (1) In subsection (b)(1)--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-534]]

                    (A) by striking ``title I of the National Capital 
                Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 
                1997'' and inserting ``subtitle A of title XI of the 
                Balanced Budget Act of 1997''; and
                    (B) by inserting after the second sentence the 
                following new sentences: ``Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of District law or any other law, rule, or 
                regulation, any Trustee, contractor, or enrolled actuary 
                selected by the Secretary under this subsection may, 
                with the approval of the Secretary, enter into one or 
                more subcontracts with the District of Columbia 
                government or any person to provide services to such 
                Trustee, contractor, or enrolled actuary in connection 
                with its performance of its agreement with the 
                Secretary. Such Trustee, contractor, or enrolled actuary 
                shall monitor the performance of any subcontract to 
                which it is a party and enforce its provisions.''.
            (2) In subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``chief judges of the District of 
                Columbia Court of Appeals and Superior Court of the 
                District of Columbia'' and inserting ``Secretary'';
                    (B) by striking ``and the Secretary'';
                    (C) by striking ``and appropriations''; and
                    (D) by striking ``and deficiency''.
            (3) By amending subsection (c) to read as follows:

    ``(c)(1) Amounts in the Fund are available--
            ``(A) for the payment of judges retirement pay, annuities, 
        refunds, and allowances under this subchapter;
            ``(B) to cover the reasonable and necessary expenses of 
        administering the Fund under any agreement entered into with a 
        Trustee, contractor, or enrolled actuary under subsection 
        (b)(1), including any agreement with a department, agency or 
        instrumentality of the United States; and
            ``(C) to cover the reasonable and necessary administrative 
        expenses incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the Secretary 
        s responsibilities under this subchapter.

    ``(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of District law or any 
other law, rule, or regulation--
            ``(A) the Secretary may review benefit determinations under 
        this subchapter made prior to the date of the enactment of the 
        Balanced Budget Act of 1997, and shall make initial benefit 
        determinations after such date; and
            ``(B) the Secretary may recoup or recover, or waive 
        recoupment or recovery of, any amounts paid under this 
        subchapter as a result of errors or omissions by any person.''.
            (4) In subsection (d)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, there shall be deposited into the Fund'' 
                and inserting ``The Secretary shall pay into the Fund 
                from the General Fund of the Treasury''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(beginning with the first fiscal 
                year which ends more than 6 months after the replacement 
                plan adoption date described in section 103(13) of the 
                National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
                Improvement Act of 1997)''.
            (5) In subsection (d)(2)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``June 30, 1997'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 1997''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-535]]

                    (B) by striking ``net the sum of future normal 
                cost'' and inserting ``net of the sum of the present 
                value of future normal costs''.
            (6) In subsection (d)(3), by striking ``shall be taken from 
        sums available for that fiscal year for the payment of the 
        expenses of the Court, and''.
            (7) By adding at the end the following new subsections:

    ``(h) For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986--
            ``(1) the Fund shall be treated as a trust described in 
        section 401(a) of the Code that is exempt from taxation under 
        section 501(a) of the Code;
            ``(2) any transfer to or distribution from the Fund shall be 
        treated in the same manner as a transfer to or distribution from 
        a trust described in section 401(a) of the Code; and
            ``(3) the benefits provided by the Fund shall be treated as 
        benefits provided under a governmental plan maintained by the 
        District of Columbia.

    ``(i) For purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974, the benefits provided by the Fund shall be treated as benefits 
provided under a governmental plan maintained by the District of 
Columbia.
    ``(j) To the extent that any provision of subpart A of part I of 
subchapter D of the chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 
U.S.C. 401 et seq.) is amended after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection, such provision as amended shall apply to the Fund only to 
the extent the Secretary determines that application of the provision as 
amended is consistent with the administration of this subchapter.
    ``(k) Federal obligations for benefits under this subchapter are 
backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.''.
    (b) Regulatory Authority of Secretary.--Section 11251 of the 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 756) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(b) Regulations; Effect on Reform Act.--Title 11, District of 
Columbia Code, is amended by adding the following new section:

`Sec. 11-1572. Regulations; effect on Reform Act.

    `(a) The Secretary is authorized to issue regulations to implement, 
interpret, administer and carry out the purposes of this subchapter, 
and, in the Secretary's discretion, those regulations may have 
retroactive effect, except that nothing in this subsection may be 
construed to permit the Secretary to issue any regulation to 
retroactively reduce or eliminate the benefits to which any individual 
is entitled under this subchapter.

    `(b) This subchapter supersedes any provision of the District of 
Columbia Retirement Reform Act (Public Law 96-122) inconsistent with 
this subchapter and the regulations thereunder.'.''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (c) (as so redesignated) to read 
        as follows:

    ``(c) Clerical Amendments.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-536]]

            ``(1) The table of sections for subchapter III of chapter 15 
        of title 11, District of Columbia Code, is amended by amending 
        the item relating to section 11-1570 to read as follows:

`11-1570. The District of Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors 
           Annuity Fund.'.

            ``(2) The table of sections for subchapter III of chapter 15 
        of title 11, District of Columbia Code, is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

`11-1572. Regulations; effect on Reform Act.'.''

    (c) Termination of Previous Fund and Program.--Section 124 of the 
District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act (DC Code, sec. 1-714), as 
amended by section 11252(a) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(except as provided in 
        section 11-1570, District of Columbia Code)'' after ``the 
        following'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``title I of the 
        National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement 
        Act of 1997'' and inserting ``subtitle A of title XI of the 
        Balanced Budget Act of 1997''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``(2) The'' and inserting ``(2) In 
                accordance with the direction of the Secretary, the'';
                    (B) by striking ``in the Treasury'' and inserting 
                ``at the Board''; and
                    (C) by striking ``appropriated'' and inserting 
                ``used''.

    (d) Administration of Retirement Funds.--Section 11252 of the 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(b) Transition From District of Columbia Administration.--Sections 
11023, 11032(b)(2), 11033(d), and 11041 shall apply to the 
administration of the District of Columbia Judges Retirement Fund 
established under section 124 of the District of Columbia Retirement 
Reform Act (DC Code, sec. 1-714), the District of Columbia Judicial 
Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11-1570, 
District of Columbia Code, and the retirement program for judges under 
subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11, District of Columbia Code, 
except as follows:
            ``(1) In applying each such section--
                    ``(A) any reference to this subtitle shall instead 
                refer to subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11, 
                District of Columbia Code;
                    ``(B) any reference to the District Retirement 
                Program shall be deemed to include the retirement 
                program for judges under subchapter III of chapter 15 of 
                title 11, District of Columbia Code;
                    ``(C) any reference to the District Retirement Fund 
                shall be deemed to include the District of Columbia 
                Judges Retirement Fund established under section 124 of 
                the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act;
                    ``(D) any reference to Federal benefit payments 
                shall be deemed to include judges retirement pay, 
                annuities,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-537]]

                refunds and allowances under subchapter III of chapter 
                15 of title 11, District of Columbia Code;
                    ``(E) any reference to the Trust Fund shall instead 
                refer to the District of Columbia Judicial Retirement 
                and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11-
                1570, District of Columbia Code;
                    ``(F) any reference to section 11033 shall instead 
                refer to section 124 of the District of Columbia 
                Retirement Reform Act, as amended by section 11252; and
                    ``(G) any reference to chapter 2 shall instead refer 
                to section 11-1570, District of Columbia Code.
            ``(2) In applying section 11023--
                    ``(A) any reference to the contract shall instead 
                refer to the agreement referred to in section 11-
                1570(b), District of Columbia Code; and
                    ``(B) any reference to the Trustee shall instead 
                refer to the Trustee or contractor referred to in 
                section 11-1570(b), District of Columbia Code.
            ``(3) In applying section 11033(d)--
                    ``(A) any reference to this section shall instead 
                refer to section 124 of the District of Columbia 
                Retirement Reform Act, as amended by section 11252; and
                    ``(B) any reference to the Trustee shall instead 
                refer to the Secretary or the Trustee or contractor 
                referred to in section 11-1570(b), District of Columbia 
                Code.
            ``(4) In applying section 11041(b), any reference to the 
        Trustee shall instead refer to the Trustee or contractor 
        referred to in section 11-1570(b), District of Columbia Code.''; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Effective Date.--The provisions of subsection (c) shall take 
effect on the date on which the assets of the District of Columbia 
Judges Retirement Fund are transferred to the District of Columbia 
Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund.''.
    (e) Miscellaneous Technical and Clerical Amendments.--(1) Sections 
11-1568(d) and 11-1569, District of Columbia Code, are each amended by 
striking ``Mayor'' each place it appears and inserting ``Secretary of 
the Treasury''.
    (2) Section 11-1568.2, District of Columbia Code, is amended by 
striking ``Mayor of the District of Columbia'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``Secretary of the Treasury''.
    (3) Section 121(b)(1)(A) of the District of Columbia Retirement 
Reform Act (DC Code, sec. 1-711(b)(1)(A)), as amended by section 
11252(c)(1) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (as redesignated by 
subsection (d)(1)), is amended in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
striking ``11'' and inserting ``12''.
    (4) Section 11-1561(4), District of Columbia Code, as amended by 
section 11253(b) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, is amended by 
striking ``sections'' and inserting ``section''.
    (5) Section 11253(c) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 
105-33; 111 Stat. 759) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Treatment of Federal Service of Judges.--Section 11-1564, 
District of Columbia Code, is amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (d)(2)(A), by striking `section 1-1814)' 
        and inserting `section 1-714) or the District of Columbia 
        Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund (established by 
        section 11-1570)'; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-538]]

            ``(2) in subsection (d)(4), by striking `Judges Retirement 
        Fund established by section 124(a) of
 the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act' and inserting `Judicial 
Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund under section 11-1570'.''.

    (6) Section 11253 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 
105-33; 111 Stat. 759) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Redeposits to Fund.--Section 11-1568.1(4)(A), District of 
Columbia Code, is amended by striking `Judges Retirement Fund' and 
inserting `Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund'.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a)(2), 
(a)(4), and (a)(6) shall take effect October 1, 1998.

<<NOTE: 26 USC 3121 note.>> SEC. 805. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided, this title and the 
amendments made by this title shall take effect as if included in the 
enactment of title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997.

  <<NOTE: Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998. 8 USC 1101 
note.>> TITLE IX--HAITIAN REFUGEE IMMIGRATION FAIRNESS ACT OF 1998

    Sec. 901. Short Title. This title may be cited as the ``Haitian 
Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998''.
    Sec. 902.  <<NOTE: 8 USC 1255 note.>> Adjustment of Status of 
Certain Haitian Nationals. (a) Adjustment of Status.--
            (1) In general.--The status of any alien described in 
        subsection (b) shall be adjusted by the Attorney General to that 
        of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, if the 
        alien--
                    (A) applies for such adjustment before April 1, 
                2000; and
                    (B) is otherwise admissible to the United States for 
                permanent residence, except that, in determining such 
                admissibility, the grounds for inadmissibility specified 
                in paragraphs (4), (5), (6)(A), (7)(A), and (9)(B) of 
                section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
                shall not apply.
            (2) Relationship of application to certain orders.--An alien 
        present in the United States who has been ordered excluded, 
        deported, removed, or ordered to depart voluntarily from the 
        United States under any provision of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act may, notwithstanding such order, apply for 
        adjustment of status under paragraph (1). Such an alien may not 
        be required, as a condition on submitting or granting such 
        application, to file a separate motion to reopen, reconsider, or 
        vacate such order. If the Attorney General grants the 
        application, the Attorney General shall cancel the order. If the 
        Attorney General makes a final decision to deny the application, 
        the order shall be effective and enforceable to the same extent 
        as if the application had not been made.

    (b) Aliens Eligible for Adjustment of Status.--The benefits provided 
by subsection (a) shall apply to any alien who is a national of Haiti 
who--
            (1) was present in the United States on December 31, 1995, 
        who--
                    (A) filed for asylum before December 31, 1995,
                    (B) was paroled into the United States prior to 
                December 31, 1995, after having been identified as 
                having a

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-539]]

                credible fear of persecution, or paroled for emergent 
                reasons or reasons deemed strictly in the public 
                interest, or
                    (C) was a child (as defined in the text above 
                subparagraph (A) of section 101(b)(1) of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(b)(1)) at the time of 
                arrival in the United States and on December 31, 1995, 
                and who--
                          (i) arrived in the United States without 
                      parents in the United States and has remained 
                      without parents in the United States since such 
                      arrival,
                          (ii) became orphaned subsequent to arrival in 
                      the United States, or
                          (iii) was abandoned by parents or guardians 
                      prior to April 1, 1998 and has remained abandoned 
                      since such abandonment; and
            (2) has been physically present in the United States for a 
        continuous period beginning not later than December 31, 1995, 
        and ending not earlier than the date the application for such 
        adjustment is filed, except that an alien shall not be 
        considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical 
        presence by reason of an absence, or absences, from the United 
        States for any period or periods amounting in the aggregate to 
        not more than 180 days.

    (c) Stay of Removal.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General shall provide by 
        regulation for an alien who is subject to a final order of 
        deportation or removal or exclusion to seek a stay of such order 
        based on the filing of an application under subsection (a).
            (2) During certain proceedings.--Notwithstanding any 
        provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Attorney 
        General shall not order any alien to be removed from the United 
        States, if the alien is in exclusion, deportation, or removal 
        proceedings under any provision of such Act and has applied for 
        adjustment of status under subsection (a), except where the 
        Attorney General has made a final determination to deny the 
        application.
            (3) Work authorization.--The Attorney General may authorize 
        an alien who has applied for adjustment of status under 
        subsection (a) to engage in employment in the United States 
        during the pendency of such application and may provide the 
        alien with an ``employment authorized'' endorsement or other 
        appropriate document signifying authorization of employment, 
        except that if such application is pending for a period 
        exceeding 180 days, and has not been denied, the Attorney 
        General shall authorize such employment.

    (d) Adjustment of Status for Spouses and Children.--
            (1) In general.--The status of an alien shall be adjusted by 
        the Attorney General to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
        permanent residence, if--
                    (A) the alien is a national of Haiti;
                    (B) the alien is the spouse, child, or unmarried son 
                or daughter, of an alien whose status is adjusted to 
                that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
                residence under subsection (a), except that, in the case 
                of such an unmarried son or daughter, the son or 
                daughter shall be required to establish that he or she 
                has been physically present in the United States for a 
                continuous period beginning not later than December 31, 
                1995, and ending not

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-540]]

                earlier than the date the application for such 
                adjustment is filed;
                    (C) the alien applies for such adjustment and is 
                physically present in the United States on the date the 
                application is filed; and
                    (D) the alien is otherwise admissible to the United 
                States for permanent residence, except that, in 
                determining such admissibility, the grounds for 
                inadmissibility specified in paragraphs (4), (5), 
                (6)(A), (7)(A), and (9)(B) of section 212(a) of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply.
            (2) Proof of continuous presence.--For purposes of 
        establishing the period of continuous physical presence referred 
        to in paragraph (1)(B), an alien shall not be considered to have 
        failed to maintain continuous physical presence by reason of an 
        absence, or absences, from the United States for any period or 
        periods amounting in the aggregate to not more than 180 days.

    (e) Availability of Administrative Review.--The Attorney General 
shall provide to applicants for adjustment of status under subsection 
(a) the same right to, and procedures for, administrative review as are 
provided to--
            (1) applicants for adjustment of status under section 245 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act; or
            (2) aliens subject to removal proceedings under section 240 
        of such Act.

    (f) Limitation on Judicial Review.--A determination by the Attorney 
General as to whether the status of any alien should be adjusted under 
this section is final and shall not be subject to review by any court.
    (g) No Offset in Number of Visas Available.--When an alien is 
granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent 
resident pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State shall not be 
required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be issued 
under any provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (h) Application of Immigration and Nationality Act Provisions.--
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, the definitions 
contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act shall apply in the 
administration of this section. Nothing contained in this title shall be 
held to repeal, amend, alter, modify, effect, or restrict the powers, 
duties, functions, or authority of the Attorney General in the 
administration and enforcement of such Act or any other law relating to 
immigration, nationality, or naturalization. The fact that an alien may 
be eligible to be granted the status of having been lawfully admitted 
for permanent residence under this section shall not preclude the alien 
from seeking such status under any other provision of law for which the 
alien may be eligible.
    (i) Adjustment of Status Has No Effect On Eligibility For Welfare 
and Public Benefits.--No alien whose status has been adjusted in 
accordance with this section and who was not a qualified alien on the 
date of enactment of this Act may, solely on the basis of such adjusted 
status, be considered to be a qualified alien under section 431(b) of 
the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 
1996 (8 U.S.C. 1641(b)), as amended by section 5302 of the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997 (Public

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-541]]

Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 598), for purposes of determining the alien's 
eligibility for supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.) or medical assistance 
under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
    (j) Period of Applicability.--Subsection (i) shall not apply after 
October 1, 2003.
    (k) Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and every 6 months thereafter (until all applications for 
adjustment of status under this section have been finally adjudicated), 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
Committees on the Judiciary and the Committees on Appropriations of the 
United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate a 
report containing the following:
            (1)(A) The number of aliens who applied for adjustment of 
        status under subsection (a), including a breakdown specifying 
        the number of such applicants who are described in subparagraph 
        (A), (B), or (C) of subsection (b)(1), respectively.
            (B) The number of aliens described in subparagraph (A) whose 
        status was adjusted under this section, including a breakdown 
        described in the subparagraph.
            (2)(A) The number of aliens who applied for adjustment of 
        status under subsection (d), including a breakdown specifying 
        the number of such applicants who are sponsors, children, or 
        unmarried sons or daughters described in such subsection, 
        respectively.
            (B) The number of aliens described in subparagraph (A) whose 
        status was adjusted under this section, including a breakdown 
        described in the subparagraph.

    Sec. 903.  <<NOTE: 8 USC 1377.>> Collection of Data on Detained 
Asylum Seekers. (a) In General.--The Attorney General shall regularly 
collect data on a nation-wide basis with respect to asylum seekers in 
detention in the United States, including the following information:
            (1) The number of detainees.
            (2) An identification of the countries of origin of the 
        detainees.
            (3) The percentage of each gender within the total number of 
        detainees.
            (4) The number of detainees listed by each year of age of 
        the detainees.
            (5) The location of each detainee by detention facility.
            (6) With respect to each facility where detainees are held, 
        whether the facility is also used to detain criminals and 
        whether any of the detainees are held in the same cells as 
        criminals.
            (7) The number and frequency of the transfers of detainees 
        between detention facilities.
            (8) The average length of detention and the number of 
        detainees by category of the length of detention.
            (9) The rate of release from detention of detainees for each 
        district of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
            (10) A description of the disposition of cases.

    (b) Annual Reports.--Beginning October 1, 1999, and not later than 
October 1 of each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to 
the Committee on the Judiciary of each House of Congress a report 
setting forth the data collected under subsection (a) for the fiscal 
year ending September 30 of that year.
    (c) Availability to Public.--Copies of the data collected under 
subsection (a) shall be made available to members of the public

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-542]]

upon request pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney General shall 
prescribe.
    Sec. 904.  <<NOTE: 8 USC 1378.>> Collection of Data on Other 
Detained Aliens. (a) In General.--The Attorney General shall regularly 
collect data on a nationwide basis on aliens being detained in the 
United States by the Immigration and Naturalization Service other than 
the aliens described in section 903, including the following 
information:
            (1) The number of detainees who are criminal aliens and the 
        number of detainees who are noncriminal aliens who are not 
        seeking asylum.
            (2) An identification of the ages, gender, and countries of 
        origin of detainees within each category described in paragraph 
        (1).
            (3) The types of facilities, whether facilities of the 
        Immigration and Naturalization Service or other Federal, State, 
        or local facilities, in which each of the categories of 
        detainees described in paragraph (1) are held.

    (b) Length of Detention, Transfers, and Dispositions.--With respect 
to detainees who are criminal aliens and detainees who are noncriminal 
aliens who are not seeking asylum, the Attorney General shall also 
collect data concerning--
            (1) the number and frequency of transfers between detention 
        facilities for each category of detainee;
            (2) the average length of detention of each category of 
        detainee;
            (3) for each category of detainee, the number of detainees 
        who have been detained for the same length of time, in 3-month 
        increments;
            (4) for each category of detainee, the rate of release from 
        detention for each district of the Immigration and 
        Naturalization Service; and
            (5) for each category of detainee, the disposition of 
        detention, including whether detention ended due to deportation, 
        release on parole, or any other release.

    (c) Criminal Aliens.--With respect to criminal aliens, the Attorney 
General shall also collect data concerning--
            (1) the number of criminal aliens apprehended under the 
        immigration laws and not detained by the Attorney General; and
            (2) a list of crimes committed by criminal aliens after the 
        decision was made not to detain them, to the extent this 
        information can be derived by cross-checking the list of 
        criminal aliens not detained with other databases accessible to 
        the Attorney General.

    (d) Annual Reports.--Beginning on October 1, 1999, and not later 
than October 1 of each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall 
submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of each House of Congress a 
report setting forth the data collected under subsections (a), (b), and 
(c) for the fiscal year ending September 30 of that year.
    (e) Availability to Public.--Copies of the data collected under 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be made available to members of the 
public upon request pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney General 
shall prescribe.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-543]]

    Sec. 102. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933, as amended (16 U.S.C. ch. 12A), 
including hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, and purchase and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $50,000,000 is hereby appropriated: 
Provided, That use of the funds provided herein is limited to the 
purposes for which funds were provided under this heading in Public Law 
105-62: Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this 
section, $7,000,000 shall be available for operation, maintenance, 
surveillance, and improvement of Land Between the Lakes.
    Sec. 103. Repurchase of Bonds by the Tennessee Valley Authority. (a) 
Repurchase.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any term 
contained in any bond issued by the Tennessee Valley Authority to the 
Federal Financing Bank--
            (1) subject to subsection (b), the Tennessee Valley 
        Authority shall have the right to repurchase all such bonds by 
        payment of the principal amount of the bonds plus interest to 
        the date of repurchase;
            (2) the Federal Financing Bank shall not require payment 
        from the Tennessee Valley Authority of any additional amount in 
        connection with the repurchase; and
            (3) there is hereby appropriated to the Federal Financing 
        Bank such amounts as may be necessary to pay the difference 
        between (1) the amount that the Tennessee Valley Authority paid 
        to the Federal Financing Bank to prepay its outstanding loans 
        from the Federal Financing Bank under this section and (2) the 
        amount that the Federal Financing Bank would have received 
        otherwise.

    (b) No Further Financing.--Notwithstanding any other law, after the 
date of repurchase of bonds under subsection (a), the Tennessee Valley 
Authority shall not be entitled or permitted to obtain financing from 
the Federal Financing Bank.
    (c) Use of Savings.--
            (1) In general.--From non-appropriated funds, beginning on 
        the date of repurchase of bonds and ending on the date on which 
        the bonds would have matured but for this section, amounts that, 
        as determined under paragraph (2), are equivalent to amounts 
        that the Tennessee Valley Authority saves as a result of the 
        repurchase of bonds shall be used to reduce debt of the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority.
            (2) Determination of amount of savings.--On each date on 
        which a payment of interest would have been made on a 
        repurchased bond if the bond had not been repurchased, the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority shall be considered to realize a 
        saving in the amount of the difference between--
                    (A) the amount of interest that would have been due 
                at the rate of interest specified in the bond; and
                    (B) the amount of interest that would have been due 
                if the rate of interest specified in the bond had been 
                the yield to maturity of a marketable public obligation 
                of the United States with a maturity of 10 years as of 
                September 30, 1997.

    Sec. 104. Section 312 of Public Law 105-245, the Energy and Water 
Development Appropriations Act, 1999, is repealed.
    Sec. 105. An additional amount of $35,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, for Department of Defense--Civil, Department of the 
Army, Corps of Engineers--Civil, ``Construction, General'',

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-544]]

is hereby appropriated for the Columbia River Fish Mitigation, 
Washington, Oregon, and Idaho, project.
    Sec. 106. The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $1,500,000 of the funds previously 
appropriated in ``Construction, General'', for the Lackawanna River, 
Scranton, Pennsylvania,
project to initiate construction of the Delaware River Mainstem and 
Channel Deepening, Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, project. The 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to use $400,000 of the funds previously appropriated in 
``Construction, General'', for the Lackawanna River, Scranton, 
Pennsylvania, project to initiate a comprehensive review of aquatic 
ecosystem restoration initiatives in the Upper Susquehanna-Lackawanna 
Watershed under the Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration (Section 206) program. 
Subject to enactment of authorizing legislation, the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use $340,000 
of the available ``Construction, General'' funds to initiate 
construction of the Pierre, South Dakota, flood mitigation project. The 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to use $1,500,000 of the funds appropriated in ``Construction, 
General'', in Public Law 105-245 for the South Central Pennsylvania 
Environment Improvement Program only for water-related environmental 
infrastructure and resource protection and development projects in 
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the purposes of 
subsection (a) and requirements of subsections (b) through (e) of 
section 313 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992, as amended.

    Sec. 107. The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is authorized and directed to use $750,000 of available 
``Construction, General'' funds for engineering and design, and repair 
of the Archusa Dam and appurtenant structures located in Quitman, 
Mississippi.
    Sec. 108. An additional amount of $60,000,000 for Department of 
Energy--Energy Programs, ``Energy Supply'', is hereby appropriated to 
remain available until September 30, 2000.
    Sec. 109. An additional amount of $15,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, for Department of Energy--Energy Programs, ``Science'', 
is hereby appropriated.
    Sec. 110. Lake Powell. No funds appropriated by this Act or any 
other Act for fiscal year 1999 shall be used to study or implement any 
plan to drain Lake Powell or decommission the Glen Canyon Dam.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to construction of, and improvements to, surface 
transportation projects located in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to construction of, and improvements to, Corridor X of 
the Appalachian development highway system located in the State of 
Alabama, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to construction of, and improvements to, the 
Appalachian development highway system in the State of West Virginia, 
$32,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to construction of, and improvements to,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-545]]

highway projects in the corridor designated by section 
1105(c)(18)(C)(ii) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2032-2033), as amended by section 1211(i) of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to enable the 
Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the Alaska Railroad, 
$28,000,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be for 
capital improvements benefiting its passenger rail operations.
    Sec. 116. Of the unobligated balances authorized in Public Law 102-
240 under 49 U.S.C. 5338(b)(1), $392,000,000 is rescinded.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
funding made available in the Department
of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 for 
discretionary grants under the obligation limitation for Federal 
Aviation Administration, ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports'' in fiscal year 
1999, not less than $11,250,000 shall be made available for capital 
improvement projects at the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport.

    Sec. 118. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
funding made available in the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 for discretionary grants under the 
obligation limitation for Federal Aviation Administration, ``Grants-in-
Aid for Airports'' in fiscal year 1999, not less than $7,000,000 shall 
be made available for capital improvement projects at the Minneapolis-
St. Paul International Airport.
    Sec. 119. The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999, is 
amended by amending the item relating to ``JOINT ITEMS--Joint Committee 
on Printing'' to read as follows:

                      ``Joint Committee on Printing

    ``For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$202,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, together with 
an additional amount of $150,000 if there is enacted into law 
legislation which transfers the legislative and oversight 
responsibilities of the Joint Committee on Printing to the Committee on 
House Oversight of the House of Representatives: Provided, That such 
additional amount shall be transferred to the Committee on House 
Oversight of the House of Representatives and made available beginning 
January 1, 1999: Provided further, That such additional amount shall be 
disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives.''.
    Sec. 120. For carrying out the provisions of division C, title II of 
this Act, $30,000,000, including $750,000 for the cost of the direct 
loan under section 207(a), $20,000,000 for the payments in section 
207(d), $250,000 for the cost of direct loans under section 211(e), 
$1,000,000 for the cost of a direct loan in the Bering Sea and Aleutian 
Islands crab fisheries under the authority of section 312(b) of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1861a(b)), and $6,000,000 and $2,000,000 for the Secretary of Commerce 
and Secretary of Transportation, respectively, to implement division C, 
title II.
    Sec. 121. In addition to amounts provided in the conference report 
accompanying H.R. 4194 (H. Rept. 105-769), the following funds are 
hereby appropriated: $10,000,000 for ``Housing opportunities for persons 
with AIDS'', to remain available until expended; $45,000,000 to the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-546]]

for ``Urban Empowerment Zones'' for grants in connection with a second 
round of the empowerment zones program in urban areas, designated by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in fiscal year 1999 pursuant 
to the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, including $3,000,000 for each 
empowerment zone for use in conjunction with economic development 
activities consistent with the strategic plan of each empowerment zone, 
to remain available until expended; $20,000,000 for ``State and tribal 
assistance grants'' for a grant for construction and related activities 
for wastewater treatment for Boston, Massachusetts, to remain available 
until expended; $10,000,000 for ``National and community service 
programs operating expenses'' for grants under the National Service 
Trust program authorized under subtitle C of title I of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.) (relating to 
activities including the AmeriCorps program), to remain available until 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That none of the funds provided herein for 
``National and community service programs operating expenses'' may be 
used to administer, reimburse, or support any national service program 
authorized under section 121(d)(2) of the aforementioned Act; 
$10,000,000 for
``Science and technology'', for research associated with the Climate 
Change Technology Initiative, to remain available until September 30, 
2000: Provided further, That the obligated balance of such $10,000,000 
shall remain available through September 30, 2007 for liquidating 
obligations made in fiscal years 1999 and 2000; and $15,000,000 for 
``Community development financial institutions fund program account'', 
to remain available until September 30, 2000.
      Of the amount appropriated in H.R. 4194, the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, under the heading ``Community 
development block grants'', $4,750,000 shall be available as a grant to 
Cayuga County, New York, to repair and rehabilitate the seawalls at the 
Owasco Lake outlet, and $250,000 shall be available as a grant to 
Jackson, Michigan, to remove a portion of the Grand River culvert in 
Jackson, Michigan.

    Sec. 122. Upon enactment of H.R. 4194, the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies <<NOTE: 12 USC 1454, 4513.>> Appropriations Act, 1999, section 
202 of that Act is hereby repealed.

    Sec. 123. Section 513(a) of the ``Quality Housing and Work 
Responsibility Act of 1998'' <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437n.>> is amended, upon 
enactment, by inserting after ``40 percent'' at the end of proposed 
section 16(c)(3) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as set forth 
in section 513(a), the following: ``shall be available for leasing only 
by families whose incomes at the time of commencement of occupancy do 
not exceed 30 percent of the area median income, as determined by the 
Secretary with adjustments for smaller and larger families.''.

    Sec. 124. Notwithstanding the third undesignated paragraph under the 
heading ``Community development block grants'' under title II of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, of the amount made 
available under such heading for the city of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, up 
to 50 percent of such amount shall be available to such city for payment 
of claims for bomb damage and repairs for infrastructure located in the 
area described in clause (1) of such undesignated paragraph. Any amounts 
available for use under such undesignated paragraph that are not

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-547]]

expended to pay such claims or for such repairs shall be utilized for 
the revolving loan pool described in such undesignated paragraph.
    Sec. 125. Of the amounts earmarked in the Joint Explanatory 
Statement of the Committee of Conference accompanying H.R. 4194 for 
grants targeted for economic investments, $2,000,000 made available to 
the Hawaii Housing Authority for work associated with the construction 
of the Community Resource Center at Kuhio Homes/Kuhio Park Terrace in 
Honolulu, Hawaii shall instead be made available to the Housing and 
Community Development Corporation of Hawaii for the same purpose.
    Sec. 126. If the President makes the appointment to the position of 
Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
authorized by section 907 of the Veterans Programs Enhancement Act of 
1998, the individual appointed shall receive the pay and allowances 
authorized for that position as if the appointment had been made on 
September 29, 1998, except that the amount of such pay and allowances 
that is attributable to the period beginning on September 29, 1998, and 
ending on the day before the date of that appointment shall be reduced 
by any amount paid that individual by the United States for personal 
services performed during that period.
     <<NOTE: Trade Deficit Review Commission Act. 19 USC 2213 
note.>> Sec. 127. Trade Deficit Review Commission. (a) Short Title.--
This section may be cited as the ``Trade Deficit Review Commission 
Act''.

    (b) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States continues to run substantial 
        merchandise trade and current account deficits.
            (2) Economic forecasts anticipate continued growth in such 
        deficits in the next few years.
            (3) The positive net international asset position that the 
        United States built up over many years was eliminated in the 
        1980s. The United States today has become the world's largest 
        debtor nation.
            (4) The United States merchandise trade deficit is 
        characterized by large bilateral trade imbalances with a handful 
        of countries.
            (5) The United States has one of the most open borders and 
        economies in the world. The United States faces significant 
        tariff and nontariff trade barriers with its trading partners. 
        The United States does not benefit from fully reciprocal market 
        access.
            (6) The United States is once again at a critical juncture 
        in trade policy development. The nature of the United States 
        trade deficit and its causes and consequences must be analyzed 
        and documented.

    (c) Establishment of Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the Trade Deficit Review Commission (hereafter in this 
        section referred to as the ``Commission'').
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Commission is to study the 
        nature, causes, and consequences of the United States 
        merchandise trade and current account deficits.
            (3) Membership of commission.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed 
                of 12 members as follows:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-548]]

                          (i) Three persons shall be appointed by the 
                      President pro tempore of the Senate upon the 
                      recommendation of the Majority Leader of the 
                      Senate, after consultation with the Chairman of 
                      the Committee on Finance.
                          (ii) Three persons shall be appointed by the 
                      President pro tempore of the Senate upon the 
                      recommendation of the Minority Leader of the 
                      Senate, after consultation with the ranking 
                      minority member of the Committee on Finance.
                          (iii) Three persons shall be appointed by the 
                      Speaker of the House of Representatives, after 
                      consultation with the Chairman of the Committee on 
                      Ways and Means.
                          (iv) Three persons shall be appointed by the 
                      Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, 
                      after consultation with the ranking minority 
                      member of the Committee on Ways and Mean.
                    (B) Qualifications of members.--
                          (i) Appointments.--Persons who are appointed 
                      under subparagraph (A) shall be persons who--
                                    (I) have expertise in economics, 
                                international trade, manufacturing, 
                                labor, environment, business, or have 
                                other pertinent qualifications or 
                                experience; and
                                    (II) are not officers or employees 
                                of the United States.
                          (ii) Other considerations.--In appointing 
                      Commission members, every effort shall be made to 
                      ensure that the members--
                                    (I) are representative of a broad 
                                cross-section of economic and trade 
                                perspectives within the United States; 
                                and
                                    (II) provide fresh insights to 
                                analyzing the causes and consequences of 
                                United States merchandise trade and 
                                current account deficits.
            (4) Period of appointment; vacancies.--
                    (A) In general.--Members shall be appointed not 
                later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
                Act and the appointment shall be for the life of the 
                Commission.
                    (B) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall 
                not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same 
                manner as the original appointment.
            (5) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        on which all members of the Commission have been appointed, the 
        Commission shall hold its first meeting.
            (6) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson.
            (7) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--The members of the 
        Commission shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson from 
        among the members of the Commission.
            (8) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
        shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
            (9) Voting.--Each member of the Commission shall be entitled 
        to 1 vote, which shall be equal to the vote of every other 
        member of the Commission.

    (d) Duties of the Commission.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-549]]

            (1) In general.--The Commission shall be responsible for 
        examining the nature, causes, and consequences of, and the 
        accuracy of available data on, the United States merchandise 
        trade and current account deficits.
            (2) Issues to be addressed.--The Commission shall examine 
        and report to the President, the Committee on Ways and Means of 
        the House of Representatives, the Committee on Finance of the 
        Senate, and other appropriate committees of Congress on the 
        following:
                    (A) The relationship of the merchandise trade and 
                current account balances to the overall well-being of 
                the United States economy, and to wages and employment 
                in various sectors of the United States economy.
                    (B) The impact that United States monetary and 
                fiscal policies may have on United States merchandise 
                trade and current account deficits.
                    (C) The extent to which the coordination, 
                allocation, and accountability of trade responsibilities 
                among Federal agencies may contribute to the trade and 
                current account deficits.
                    (D) The causes and consequences of the merchandise 
                trade and current account deficits and specific 
                bilateral trade deficits, including--
                          (i) identification and quantification of--
                                    (I) the macroeconomic factors and 
                                bilateral trade barriers that may 
                                contribute to the United States 
                                merchandise trade and current account 
                                deficits;
                                    (II) any impact of the merchandise 
                                trade and current account deficits on 
                                the domestic economy, industrial base, 
                                manufacturing capacity, technology, 
                                number and quality of jobs, 
                                productivity, wages, and the United 
                                States standard of living;
                                    (III) any impact of the merchandise 
                                trade and current account deficits on 
                                the defense production and innovation 
                                capabilities of the United States; and
                                    (IV) trade deficits within 
                                individual industrial, manufacturing, 
                                and production sectors, and any 
                                relationship between such deficits and 
                                the increasing volume of intra-industry 
                                and intra-company transactions;
                          (ii) a review of the adequacy and accuracy of 
                      the current collection and reporting of import and 
                      export data, and the identification and 
                      development of additional data bases and economic 
                      measurements that may be needed to properly 
                      quantify the merchandise trade and current account 
                      balances, and any impact the merchandise trade and 
                      current account balances may have on the United 
                      States economy; and
                          (iii) the extent to which there is reciprocal 
                      market access substantially equivalent to that 
                      afforded by the United States in each country with 
                      which the United States has a persistent and 
                      substantial bilateral trade deficit, and the 
                      extent to which such deficits have become 
                      structural.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-550]]

                    (E) Any relationship of United States merchandise 
                trade and current account deficits to both comparative 
                and competitive trade advantages within the global 
                economy, including--
                          (i) a systematic analysis of the United States 
                      trade patterns with different trading partners and 
                      to what extent the trade patterns are based on 
                      comparative and competitive trade advantages;
                          (ii) the extent to which the increased 
                      mobility of capital and technology has changed 
                      both comparative and competitive trade advantages;
                          (iii) any impact that labor, environmental, or 
                      health and safety standards may have on 
                      comparative and competitive trade advantages;
                          (iv) the effect that offset and technology 
                      transfer agreements have on the long-term 
                      competitiveness of the United States manufacturing 
                      sectors; and
                          (v) any effect that international trade, 
                      labor, environmental, or other agreements may have 
                      on United States competitiveness.
                    (F) The extent to which differences in the growth 
                rates of the United States and its trading partners may 
                impact on United States merchandise trade and current 
                account deficits.
                    (G) The impact that currency exchange rate 
                fluctuations and any manipulation of exchange rates may 
                have on United States merchandise trade and current 
                account deficits.
                    (H) The flow of investments both into and out of the 
                United States, including--
                          (i) any consequences for the United States 
                      economy of the current status of the United States 
                      as a debtor nation;
                          (ii) any relationship between such investment 
                      flows and the United States merchandise trade and 
                      current account deficits and living standards of 
                      United States workers;
                          (iii) any impact such investment flows may 
                      have on United States labor, community, 
                      environmental, and health and safety standards, 
                      and how such investment flows influence the 
                      location of manufacturing facilities; and
                          (iv) the effect of barriers to United States 
                      foreign direct investment in developed and 
                      developing nations, particularly nations with 
                      which the United States has a merchandise trade 
                      and current account deficit.

    (e) Final Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 12 months after the date of 
        the initial meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall 
        submit to the President and Congress a final report which 
        contains--
                    (A) the findings and conclusions of the Commission 
                described in subsection (d); and
                    (B) recommendations for addressing the problems 
                identified as part of the Commission's analysis.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-551]]

            (2) Separate views.--Any member of the Commission may submit 
        additional findings and recommendations as part of the final 
        report.

    (f) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
        receive such evidence as the Commission may find advisable to 
        fulfill the requirements of this section. The Commission shall 
        hold at least 1 or more hearings in Washington, D.C., and 4 in 
        different regions of the United States.
            (2) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
        secure directly from any Federal department or agency such 
        information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out 
        the provisions of this section. Upon request of the Chairperson 
        of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall 
        furnish such information to the Commission.
            (3) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as 
        other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

    (g) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--Each member of the Commission 
        shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of 
        the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which such 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Commission.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under 
        subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while 
        away from their homes or regular places of business in the 
        performance of services for the Commission.
            (3) Staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The Chairperson of the Commission 
                may, without regard to the civil service laws and 
                regulations, appoint and terminate an executive director 
                and such other additional personnel as may be necessary 
                to enable the Commission to perform its duties. The 
                employment of an executive director shall be subject to 
                confirmation by the Commission.
                    (B) Compensation.--The Chairperson of the Commission 
                may fix the compensation of the executive director and 
                other personnel without regard to the provisions of 
                chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
                United States Code, relating to classification of 
                positions and General Schedule pay rates, except that 
                the rate of pay for the executive director and other 
                personnel may not exceed the rate payable for level V of 
                the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
            (4) Detail of government employees.--Any Federal Government 
        employee may be detailed to the Commission without 
        reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or 
        loss of civil service status or privilege.
            (5) Procurement of temporary and intermittent services.--The 
        Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and 
        intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-552]]

        5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do not 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
        prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
        5316 of such title.

    (h) Support Services.--The Administrator of the General Services 
Administration shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis 
such administrative support services as the Commission may request.
    (i) Appropriations.--There are appropriated $2,000,000 to the 
Commission to carry out the provisions of this section.
    Sec. 128. None of the funds provided or otherwise made available in 
this Division of this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond 
the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.

    Sec. 130. Notwithstanding section 11031 of the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 or any other 
provision of law and not later than September 30, 1999, the Secretary of 
the Treasury shall invest, or direct the Trustee to invest, the assets 
of the Trust Fund in public debt securities with maturities suitable to 
the needs of the Trust Fund, as determined by the Secretary, and bearing 
interest at rates determined by the Secretary, taking into consideration 
current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the 
United States of comparable maturities.
    Sec. 131. To capitalize the District of Columbia National Capital 
Revitalization Corporation, as authorized by the District Council, 
$25,000,000 to remain available until expended for economic development 
planning, project development, capital investments, loans, grants, 
administrative expenses and other purposes included in the District 
Council's authorizing legislation: Provided, That no funds shall be 
available unless the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, determines that the 
Corporation advances the purposes of the National Capital Revitalization 
and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997: Provided further, That the 
Secretary, after apportionment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1512, may provide 
for the disbursement of funds in the manner provided for Federal grant 
programs.
    Sec. 132. For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Public 
Schools, $30,000,000, for special education costs.
    Sec. 133. For payment to the District of Columbia, $20,000,000 which 
shall be deposited into an escrow account of the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, and shall 
be disbursed from such escrow account by the Authority for Year 2000 
information technology and related chip replacement projects approved by 
the Authority: Provided, That, for purposes of any appropriations made 
by this or any other Act, for emergency expenses related to Year 2000 
conversion of Federal information technology systems, and related 
expenses, the Government of the District of Columbia shall be considered 
an agency of the United States Government: Provided further, That, any 
funds provided pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be in addition to 
funds appropriated directly under this paragraph.
    Sec. 134. For a Federal contribution to the District of Columbia for 
the costs of infrastructure needs, which shall be deposited into an 
escrow account of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority and disbursed by the Authority from such 
account for the repair and maintenance of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-553]]

roads, highways, bridges and transit in the District of Columbia and 
other economic development projects and planning in the District of 
Columbia, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

            DIVISION B--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

     TITLE I--MILITARY READINESS AND OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$10,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $10,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$33,300,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $33,300,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$8,900,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $8,900,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-554]]

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$10,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $10,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$314,500,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $314,500,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$232,600,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $232,600,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $52,400,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$52,400,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-555]]

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $303,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$303,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,496,600,000, to remain available for obligation until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these 
funds to appropriations accounts for operation and maintenance; 
procurement; and research, development, test and evaluation: Provided 
further, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and be 
available for the same purposes and for the
same time period as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of 
Defense: Provided further, That the entire amount made available under 
this heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $3,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$3,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $3,300,000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-556]]

pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $3,300,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $9,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official
budget request for $9,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $50,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $50,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $21,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $21,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

              Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Contingency Operations 
Transfer Fund'', $1,858,600,000, to remain available for obligation 
until expended: Provided, That of the amounts provided under

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-557]]

this heading, the following amounts shall be transferred to the 
specified accounts:
            ``Military Personnel, Army'', $310,600,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $9,275,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', $2,748,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', $17,000,000; and
            ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', $2,295,000:

Provided further, That of the remaining funds made available under this 
heading, the Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds only to 
operation and maintenance accounts, procurement accounts, the defense 
health program appropriation, and working capital funds accounts: 
Provided further, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and 
shall be available for the same purposes and for the same time period, 
as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That the entire amount made available under this 
heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

  Morale, Welfare and Recreation and Personnel Support for Contingency 
                               Deployments

    In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in 
the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $50,000,000, to 
remain available for obligation until expended, is hereby made available 
only for expenses, not otherwise provided for, to provide necessary 
morale, welfare and recreation support, family support, and to sustain 
necessary retention and re-enlistment of military personnel in critical 
military occupational specialties, resulting from the deployment of 
military personnel to Bosnia and Southwest Asia: Provided, That the
Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds only to operation and 
maintenance accounts of the military services: Provided further, That 
the funds transferred shall be available only for the purposes described 
under this heading: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That 
the entire amount made available under this heading is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $50,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$200,000,000: Provided, That these funds shall be for Operation

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-558]]

and maintenance, of which not to exceed two per centum shall remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $200,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $42,000,000: Provided, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be transferred to appropriations available to the 
Department of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components 
serving under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States 
Code; for Operation and maintenance; for Procurement; and for Research, 
development, test and evaluation: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for obligation for 
the same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred: Provided further, That the
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for $42,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 101. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).
    Sec. 102. In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available for obligation until expended, is 
hereby appropriated under the heading ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'': Provided, That these funds shall be made 
available only for the enhanced testing, accelerated development, 
construction, and integration and infrastructure efforts in support of 
ballistic missile defense systems: Provided further, That the entire 
amount made available in this section is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-559]]

That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 103. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, 
$259,853,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense, only 
for emergency expenses incurred at United States military facilities or 
installations in the United States or overseas directly resulting from 
storm damage or other natural disasters, as follows:
            ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', $232,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', $343,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', $100,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $139,056,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $57,179,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $8,470,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $34,254,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', $853,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', $5,058,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $5,750,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', 
        $4,355,000;
            ``Defense Health Program'', $2,120,000; and
            ``Navy Working Capital Fund'', $2,083,000:

Provided, That these funds may be used to execute projects or programs 
that were deferred in order to carry out emergency repairs resulting 
from such storm damage or natural disasters: Provided further, That the 
entire amount made available in this section is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That of the amounts provided in this section, 
$153,551,000 shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That of the amount referred to in the third proviso in 
this section, up to $29,454,000 may be transferred from ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Army'', to ``Military Construction, Army''.
    Sec. 104. In addition to amounts provided in this Act, $2,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated for ``Defense Health Program'', to remain available 
for obligation until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, these funds shall be available only for a grant to the 
Fisher House Foundation, Inc., only for the construction and furnishing 
of additional Fisher Houses to meet the needs of military family members 
when confronted with the illness or hospitalization of an eligible 
military beneficiary.
    Sec. 105. Section 8136 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1999, is amended by striking
out ``$502,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$569,000,000'', and 
further amended by striking out ``$176,000,000'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``$243,000,000''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-560]]

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    Atomic Energy Defense Activities

    For an additional amount for ``Other Defense Activities'', for 
expenditures in the Russian Federation to implement a United States/
Russian accord for the disposition of excess weapons plutonium, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of 
the funds may be obligated until the Department of Energy submits to 
Congress a detailed budget justification for use of these funds, and the 
proposal has been approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for a specific 
dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined by the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount to purchase natural uranium associated with 
the 1997 and 1998 deliveries under the United States-Russia HEU Purchase 
Agreement (hereinafter, ``the Agreement''), $325,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted to the Congress: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That such uranium is located in the United States at the time 
of purchase, and shall become part of the inventory of the Department of 
Energy: Provided further, That such funds shall be available only upon 
conclusion of a long-term agreement by the Government of the Russian 
Federation and commercial partners for the sale of uranium to be derived 
from deliveries scheduled for 1999 and thereafter under the Agreement.

                                CHAPTER 3

              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                       Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'' to 
replace facilities destroyed by monsoons in the Republic of Korea during 
August of 1998, $118,000,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-561]]

further, That from amounts made available in this or any other Act for 
military construction, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
property and carry out a military construction project at Camp Casey in 
Korea, in the amount of $12,016,000.

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy'' to 
cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of Hurricanes 
Georges and Bonnie, $5,860,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$29,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, 
That of this amount, $2,200,000 shall be available to cover the 
incremental costs arising from force protection, as authorized by 10 
U.S.C. 2803: Provided further, That of this amount $27,000,000 shall be 
available to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences 
of Hurricane Georges, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'' to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of 
Hurricane Georges, $2,500,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.



[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-562]]

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air National 
Guard'' to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of 
Hurricane Georges, $15,900,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Army'' to cover the 
incremental costs arising from the consequences of Hurricane Georges and 
for the rehabilitation of family housing, $5,200,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of this amount $4,000,000 shall be available 
only for the rehabilitation of family housing referred to in Section 
8142 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 1999: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine 
Corps'' to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of 
Hurricane Bonnie, $10,599,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Air Force'' to cover 
the incremental costs arising from the consequences of Hurricane 
Georges, $22,233,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999: Provided, That the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-563]]

entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Section 2304(c)(2) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 2192.>> is 
amended by striking ``$2,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$2,000,000''.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses for the operation 
and maintenance of the Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for, 
$100,000,000, of which $28,000,000 is only available for expenses 
related to expansion of drug interdiction activities around Puerto Rico, 
the United States Virgin Islands, and other transit zone areas of 
operation, including costs to operate and maintain PC-170 patrol craft 
offered by the Department of Defense: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
        amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

    For an additional amount for acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of facilities and equipment, to be available for 
expansion of Coast Guard drug interdiction activities, $100,000,000, to 
remain available until expended and to be distributed as follows:
            Acquisition and construction of Barracuda class coastal 
        patrol boats, $33,000,000;
            Reactivation costs for up to 3 HU-25 aircraft for maritime 
        patrol, $7,500,000;
            Acquisition of installed or deployable electronic sensors 
        and communication systems for Coast Guard cutters or boats, 
        $13,000,000;
            Operational test and evaluation of the use of force from 
        aircraft, $2,500,000; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-564]]

            Acquisition of installed or deployable electronic sensors 
        for maritime patrol aircraft and not to exceed $5,800,000 for C-
        130 engine upgrade, $44,000,000:

Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
                                Congress.

    For an additional amount for operating, maintenance, and training 
expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, including supplies, equipment and 
services, $5,000,000: Provided, That none of these funds may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserves: Provided further, That the highest priority for 
use of these funds shall be for enhancing drug interdiction activities 
conducted by the Coast Guard Reserves: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
   1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation, maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
highest priority for use of these funds shall be the development of new 
technologies or operational procedures which enhance drug interdiction 
activities of the Coast Guard: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-565]]

                         TITLE II--ANTITERRORISM

                                CHAPTER 1

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $21,680,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'', $773,700,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$25,700,000 shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request that includes the designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided, That as determined by the 
Secretary of State, such funds may be used to procure services and 
equipment overseas necessary to improve worldwide security and 
reconstitute embassy operations in Kenya and Tanzania on behalf of any 
other agency: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
                            1985, as amended.

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
                Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-566]]

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Security and Maintenance of 
United States Missions'', $627,000,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which $56,000,000 is for security projects, relocations, 
and security equipment on behalf of missions of other U.S. Government 
agencies, which amount may be transferred to any appropriation for this 
purpose, to be merged with and available for the same time period as the 
appropriation to which transferred; and of which $185,000,000 is for 
capital improvements or relocation of office and residential facilities 
to improve security, which amount shall become available fifteen days 
after notice thereof has been transmitted to the Appropriations 
Committees of both Houses of Congress: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
                    Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic 
and Consular Service'', $10,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 2

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $358,427,000, to remain available for obligation until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds to 
fiscal year 1999 appropriations for operation and maintenance; 
procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; and family 
housing: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall be merged 
with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time period 
as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That the entire amount made available under this 
heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $358,427,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-567]]

Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 201. Maintenance and Operation of Equipment.--Section 374 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)(B), by striking the period at the 
        end, inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and the following new 
        subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) a foreign or domestic counter-terrorism 
                operation; or
                    ``(D) a rendition of a suspected terrorist from a 
                foreign country to the United States to stand trial.'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(2)(F)(i)--
                    (A) by inserting ``along with any other civilian or 
                military personnel who are supporting, or conducting, a 
                joint operation with civilian
law enforcement personnel;'' after ``the transportation of civilian law 
enforcement personnel''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'';
            (4) in subsection (b)(2)(F)(ii)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and supporting'' after ``the 
                operation of a base of operations for civilian law 
                enforcement'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting at the end the following new 
                clause:
                    ``(iii) the transportation of suspected terrorists 
                from foreign countries to the United States for trial 
                (so long as the requesting Federal law enforcement 
                agency provides all security for such transportation and 
                maintains custody over the suspect through the duration 
                of the transportation).'';
            (5) in subsection (b)(4)(A), by striking ``an'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``a Federal''; and
            (6) in subsection (b)(4)(A), by inserting a new clause ``(v) 
        Any law, foreign or domestic, prohibiting terrorist 
        activities.'' after ``(iv) The Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act 
                        (46 U.S.C. App. 1901 et seq.).''.

    Sec. 202. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, 
$50,000,000 is hereby appropriated, only to initiate and expand 
activities of the Department of Defense to prevent, prepare for, and 
respond to a terrorist attack in the United States involving weapons of 
mass destruction: Provided, That $35,000,000 of the funds made available 
in this section shall be transferred to the following accounts in the 
specified amounts:
            ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $4,000,000;
            ``National Guard Personnel, Air Force'', $1,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $2,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $20,000,000; and
            ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', $8,000,000:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-568]]

Provided further, That of the funds made available in this section, 
$15,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', only to develop and support a long term, sustainable 
Weapons of Mass Destruction emergency preparedness training program: 
Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to this section shall 
be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
That the transfer authority provided in this section is in addition to 
any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That the entire amount provided in this section is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $50,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 203. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, 
$120,500,000, to remain available for obligation until expended, is 
appropriated to the proper accounts within the Department of the Air 
Force: Provided, That the additional amount shall be made available only 
for the provision of crisis response aviation support for critical 
national security, law enforcement and
emergency response agencies: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $120,500,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
President of the United States shall submit to the Congress by March 15, 
1999, an interagency agreement for the utilization of Department of 
Defense assets to support the crisis response requirements of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency.

                                CHAPTER 3

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                    International Security Assistance

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Kenya and 
Tanzania, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-569]]

under this paragraph may be made available for administrative costs 
associated with assistance provided under this paragraph: Provided 
further, That $2,500,000 shall be transferred to and merged with 
``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development'' for 
security and related expenses: Provided further, That $1,269,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with ``Peace Corps'' for security and 
related expenses: Provided further, That the transfers authorized in the 
preceding provisos shall be in addition to sums otherwise available for 
such purposes: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
paragraph shall only be available through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

     Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 and section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'' for anti-terrorism assistance, $20,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          National Park Service

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of the National Park 
System'' for emergency security related expenses, $2,320,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
                            1985, as amended.

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for emergency security 
related expenses, $3,680,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 5

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For necessary expenses for the planning, engineering, design, and 
construction, as each such milestone is approved by the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate, the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-570]]

Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives, the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and of the 
Senate, and other appropriate committees of the House of Representatives 
and of the Senate, of a new facility to provide greater security for all 
persons working in or visiting the United States Capitol and to enhance 
the educational experience of those who have come to learn about the 
Capitol building and Congress, $100,000,000, to be supplemented by 
private funds, which shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That Section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (41 
U.S.C. 5) shall not apply to the funds made available under this 
heading: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                          CAPITOL POLICE BOARD

                          Security Enhancements

    For the Capitol Police Board for security enhancements to the 
Capitol complex, including the buildings and grounds of the Library of 
Congress, $106,782,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That such security enhancements shall be carried out in accordance with 
a plan or plans approved by the Committee on House Oversight of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee <<NOTE: Government organization.>> on 
Appropriations of the Senate: Provided further, That the Capitol Police 
Board shall transfer to the Architect of the Capitol such portion of the 
funds made available under this heading as the Architect may require for 
expenses necessary to provide support for the security enhancements, 
subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate: <<NOTE: Government organization.>>  Provided further, That the 
Capitol Police Board shall transfer to the Librarian of Congress such 
portion of the funds made available under this heading as the Librarian 
may require for expenses necessary to provide support for the security 
enhancements, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    The responsibility for design, installation, and <<NOTE: 2 USC 
141a.>> maintenance of security systems to protect the physical security 
of the buildings and grounds of the Library of Congress is transferred 
from the Architect of the Capitol to the Capitol Police Board. Such 
design, installation, and maintenance shall be carried out under the 
direction of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate, and without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of 
the United States (41 U.S.C. 5). Any alteration to a structural, 
mechanical, or architectural feature of the buildings

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-571]]

and grounds of the Library of Congress that is required for a security 
system under the preceding sentence may be carried out only with the 
approval of the Architect of the Capitol.

                                CHAPTER 6

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Aviation Administration

    For an additional amount for ``Facilities and Equipment'', 
$100,000,000, for necessary expenses for acquisition, installation and 
related activities supporting the deployment of bulk and trace 
explosives detection systems and other advanced security equipment at 
airports in the United States, to remain available until September 30, 
2001: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                CHAPTER 7

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $3,548,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      United States Secret Service

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $80,808,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-572]]

   TITLE III--YEAR 2000 CONVERSION OF FEDERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
                                 SYSTEMS

         FISCAL YEAR 1999 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses related to Year 2000 
conversion of Federal information technology systems, and related 
expenses, $2,250,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001, 
of which $5,500,000 shall be transferred to the Legislative Branch for 
``SENATE'', ``Contingent Expenses of the Senate'', ``Sergeant at Arms 
and Doorkeeper of the Senate'' for salaries and expenses related to Year 
2000 conversion of Senate information technology systems: Provided, That 
the funds may be obligated with the prior approval of the Senate 
Committee on Appropriations; and of which, $6,373,000 shall be 
transferred to the Legislative Branch for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES'', 
``Salaries and Expenses'', ``Salaries, Officers and Employees'' for 
salaries and expenses related to Year 2000 conversion of House of 
Representatives information technology systems; and of which $5,000,000 
shall be transferred to the Legislative Branch for ``GENERAL ACCOUNTING 
OFFICE'', ``Information Technology Systems and Related Expenses'' for 
expenses related to Year 2000 conversion of information technology 
systems and related expenses of all entities in the Legislative Branch 
other than the ``Senate'' and ``House of Representatives'' covered by 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-55), 
which the Comptroller General shall transfer to the affected entities in 
the Legislative Branch, upon the approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations; and of which $13,044,000 shall be 
transferred to the Judiciary to the Judiciary Information Technology 
Fund for expenses related to Year 2000 conversion of Judicial Branch 
information technology and security systems: Provided further, That the 
remaining funds made available shall be transferred, as necessary, by 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to all affected 
Federal Departments and Agencies, except the Department of Defense, for 
expenses necessary to ensure the information technology that is used or 
acquired by the Federal government meets the definition of Year 2000 
compliant under Federal Acquisition Regulations (concerning accurate 
processing of date/time data, including calculating, comparing, and 
sequencing from, into, and between the twentieth and twenty-first 
centuries, and the years 1999 and 2000 and leap year calculations) and 
to meet other criteria for Year 2000 compliance as the head of each 
Department or Agency considers appropriate: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided under this heading, except those transferred to 
the Legislative Branch and the Judiciary, may be transferred to any 
Department or Agency until fifteen days after the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget has submitted to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the Senate Special Committee on the Year 
2000 Technology Problem, the House Committee on Science, and the House 
Committee on Government

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-573]]

Reform and Oversight, a proposed allocation and plan for that Department 
or Agency to achieve Year 2000 compliance for technology information 
systems: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this 
paragraph is in addition to any other transfer authority contained 
elsewhere in this or any other Act: Provided further, That funds 
provided under this heading shall be in addition to funds available in 
this or any other Act for Year 2000 compliance by any Federal Department 
or Agency: Provided further, That the entire amount, except those 
amounts transferred to the Legislative Branch and the Judiciary, shall 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

      Information Technology Systems and Security Transfer Account

    For emergency expenses relating to Year 2000 conversion of 
information technology and national security systems, for information 
technology, and infrastructure protection to include computer security/
information assurance programs, and for related expenses, 
$1,100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That the funds made available shall be transferred, as necessary, by the 
Secretary of Defense to any account in any previously enacted Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act for expenses necessary to ensure the 
information technology that is used or acquired by the Federal 
government meets the definition of Year 2000 compliant under Federal 
Acquisition Regulations (concerning accurate processing of date/time 
data, including calculating, comparing, and sequencing from, into, and 
between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 
2000 and leap year calculations) and to meet other criteria for Year 
2000 compliance as the Secretary considers appropriate: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading may be 
transferred to any other account until fifteen days after the Secretary 
of Defense has submitted to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology 
Problem, the House Committee on Science, and the House Committee on 
Government Reform and Oversight, a proposed allocation and plan for the 
Department of Defense to achieve Year 2000 compliance for technology 
information systems: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall 
be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and for the 
same time period as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of 
Defense: Provided further, That funds provided under this heading

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-574]]

shall be in addition to funds available in this or any other Act making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for Year 2000 compliance 
and related activities: Provided further, That the entire amount made 
available under this heading is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount made available under this heading shall 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                       TITLE IV--OTHER EMERGENCIES

                                CHAPTER 1

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

    In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
for this purpose, $5,000,000 is appropriated to the Department of 
Commerce to remain available until expended to provide emergency 
disaster assistance to persons or entities in the Northeast multispecies 
fishery who have incurred losses from a commercial fishery failure under 
section 308(b) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986, as 
amended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request, for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted to the Congress.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                      Small Business Administration

    For an additional amount for the cost of direct loans, $71,000,000, 
to remain available until expended to subsidize additional gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans: Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and for 
administrative expenses to carry out the disaster loan program, an 
additional $30,000,000 to remain available until expended, which may be 
transferred to and merged with appropriations for ``Salaries and 
Expenses'': Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-575]]

Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 2

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL-

                         Department of the Army

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    For an additional amount for emergency repairs and dredging due to 
flooding, $2,500,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for a specific 
dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
                    Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    For an additional amount for emergency repairs and dredging due to 
flooding, $99,700,000, to remain available until expended, of which such 
amounts for eligible navigation projects which may be derived from the 
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund pursuant to Public Law 99-662, shall be 
derived from that Fund: Provided, That the entire
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``Child Survival and Disease Programs Fund'',

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-576]]

$50,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for an additional 
amount for ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the former 
Soviet Union,'' $46,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                           UNANTICIPATED NEEDS

      For an additional amount for ``Unanticipated Needs'', $30,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, only for a grant to the American Red 
Cross for reimbursement of disaster relief, recovery expenditures, and 
emergency services: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $25,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damage due to hurricanes, 
floods and other acts of nature: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-577]]

pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
amount provided shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                          National Park Service

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $10,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damage due to hurricanes, 
floods and other acts of nature: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount 
provided shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request that includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress.

                     United States Geological Survey

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'', $1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to repair 
damage due to hurricanes, floods and other acts of nature: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the amount provided shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 5

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

    For an additional amount for ``Training and Employment Services'' to 
carry out section 402 of the Job Training Partnership Act, $7,000,000, 
to be available upon enactment and remain available through June 30, 
1999: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-578]]

                                CHAPTER 6

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, Construction, and 
Improvements'', for facility replacement or repairs arising from the 
consequences of Hurricane Georges, $12,600,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act
of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 7

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

    For an additional amount for ``Community development block grants'', 
as authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1974, $250,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
2002, for use only for disaster relief, long-term recovery, and 
mitigation in communities affected by Presidentially-declared natural 
disasters designated during fiscal years 1998 and 1999, except for those 
activities reimbursable by or for which funds are made available by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration, 
or the Army Corps of Engineers: Provided, That in administering these 
amounts and except as provided in the next proviso, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development (the Secretary) may waive or specify 
alternative requirements for any provision of any statute or regulation 
that the Secretary administers in connection with the obligation by the 
Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds, except for 
statutory requirements related to civil rights, fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon a finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the use of such funds and 
would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of the statute: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the requirements that 
activities benefit persons of low and moderate income, except that at 
least 50 percent of the funds under this heading must benefit primarily 
persons of low and moderate income unless the Secretary makes a finding 
of compelling need: Provided further, That, upon a finding of compelling 
need, the Secretary must provide an explanation of the finding to the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That all funds under 
this heading shall be allocated by the Secretary to states (including 
Indian tribes for all purposes under this heading) to be administered

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-579]]

by each state in conjunction with its Federal Emergency Management 
Agency program or its community development block grants program or by 
the entity designated by its Chief Executive Officer to administer the 
HOME Investment Partnerships Program: Provided further, That each state 
shall provide not less than 25 percent in non-Federal public matching 
funds or its equivalent value (other than administrative costs) for any 
funds allocated to the state under this heading: Provided further, That, 
in conjunction with the Director of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (the Director), the Secretary shall allocate funds based on the 
unmet needs identified by the Director as those which have not or will 
not be addressed by other federal disaster assistance programs: Provided 
further, That, in conjunction with the Director, the Secretary shall 
utilize annual disaster cost estimates in order that the funds under 
this heading shall be available, to the maximum extent feasible, to 
assist states with all Presidentially declared disasters <<NOTE: Federal 
Register, publication.>> designated during these fiscal years: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal 
Register governing the allocation and use of the community development 
block grants funds made available under this heading for disaster areas: 
Provided further, That any project or activity underway prior to a 
Presidentially declared disaster may not receive funds under this 
heading unless the disaster directly impacted the project: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Records.>> That 10 days prior to distribution of funds, 
the Secretary and the Director shall submit a list to the Committees on 
Appropriations, setting forth the proposed uses of funds, including an 
explanation of why other Federal disaster assistance programs do not 
cover the costs of unmet needs identified by the Director, the most 
recent estimates of unmet needs (including all uses of waivers and the 
reasons therefore), and an explanation of how the disaster impacted the 
proposed project: Provided further, That the Secretary and the Director 
shall submit quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
regarding the actual projects, localities and needs for which funds have 
been provided: Provided further, That these reports shall be based upon 
quarterly reports submitted to the Secretary and the Director by each 
state receiving funds under this heading: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request 
as an emergency requirement as defined by the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief'', $906,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-580]]

an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

            TITLE V--COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES AND INTERDICTION

                                CHAPTER 1

                        Department of Agriculture

      ``Agriculture Research Service'', Department of Agriculture, 
$23,000,000, for additional counterdrug research and development 
activities: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That such amounts shall be available only to 
the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in such Act is transmitted by the President to 
the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $10,200,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes the designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, Enforcement 
and Border Affairs,'' $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request that includes the designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-581]]

251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

           International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $232,600,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such funds shall be made available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses for the operation 
and maintenance of the Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for, 
$16,300,000, available solely for expenses related to the expansion of 
drug interdiction activities around Puerto Rico, the United States 
Virgin Islands, and other transit zone areas of operation, including 
costs to operate and maintain PC-170 patrol craft offered by the 
Department of Defense: Provided, That $4,000,000 of these funds shall be 
used only for the establishment and operating costs of a Caribbean 
International Support Tender, to train and support foreign coast guards 
in the Caribbean region: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

               acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of facilities and equipment, to be available for 
expansion of Coast Guard drug interdiction activities, $117,400,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-582]]

requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                                CHAPTER 5

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $1,500,000, 
to remain available until expended
for necessary expenses for an interagency money laundering initiative: 
Provided, That funds shall be available for transfer to the National 
Foreign Intelligence Program: Provided further, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent that an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided under this heading may be obligated until fifteen 
days after notice thereof has been transmitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                      United States Customs Service

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$106,300,000, to remain available until expended for counterdrug 
initiatives: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to 
the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985: Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
heading may be obligated until fifteen days after notice thereof has 
been transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-583]]

    For an additional amount for ``Operation, Maintenance and 
Procurement, Air and Marine Interdiction Programs'', $162,700,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$153,000,000 shall be available for the procurement and conversion of 
two P-3B AEW aircraft and four P-3B Slick aircraft to be transferred 
from the Department of Defense to the Customs Service: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading may be 
obligated until fifteen days after notice thereof has been transmitted 
                  to the Committees on Appropriations.

    For an additional amount for ``Customs Facilities, Construction, 
Improvements and Related Expenses'', $7,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985: Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
heading may be obligated until fifteen days after notice thereof has 
been transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $1,200,000: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading may

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-584]]

be obligated until fifteen days after notice thereof has been 
            transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

    For an additional amount to support the National Drug Court 
Institute, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the entire amount shall be available for transfer to the National 
Drug Court Institute: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of 
the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading may be obligated until fifteen days after 
notice thereof has been transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

                       TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISION

    No part of any appropriation contained in this Division of this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.

                        DIVISION C--OTHER MATTERS

                         TITLE I--OTHER MATTERS

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: 5 USC app. 3 note.>> Acting Treasury Inspector 
General for Tax Administration. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the President may appoint an acting Treasury 
Inspector General for Tax Administration to serve during the period--
            (1) beginning on the date of the enactment of this section 
        (or, if later, the date of the appointment), and
            (2) ending on the earlier of--
                    (A) April 30, 1999, or
                    (B) the date on which the first Treasury Inspector 
                General for Tax Administration takes office (other than 
                pursuant to this section).

    (b) Duties Before January 18, 1999.--The acting Treasury Inspector 
General for Tax Administration appointed under subsection (a) shall, 
before January 18, 1999, take only such actions as are necessary to 
begin operation of the Office of Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration, including--
            (1) making interim arrangements for administrative support 
        for the Office,
            (2) establishing interim positions in the Office into which 
        personnel will be transferred upon the transfer of functions and 
        duties to the Office on January 18, 1999,
            (3) appointing such acting personnel on an interim basis as 
        may be necessary upon the transfer of functions and duties to 
        the Office on January 18, 1999, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-585]]

            (4) providing guidance and input for the fiscal year 2000 
        budget process for the Office.

    (c) Actions Not To Limit Authority of IG.--None of the actions taken 
by an individual appointed under subsection (a) shall affect the future 
authority of any Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration not 
appointed under subsection (a).
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Nomination.--No individual appointed under subsection 
        (a) may serve on or after January 19, 1999, unless on or before 
        such date the President has submitted to the Senate his 
        nomination of an individual to serve as the first Treasury 
        Inspector General for Tax Administration.
            (2) Treasury inspector general may not serve.--No individual 
        appointed under subsection (a) may serve during any period such 
        individual is serving as the Inspector General of the Treasury 
        of the United States or the acting Inspector General of the 
        Treasury of the United States.
            (3) Employment restrictions.--The provisions of section 
        8D(j) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) shall 
        apply to any individual appointed under subsection (a).

    Sec. 102. Section 122 of Public Law 105-119 (5 U.S.C. 3104 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:

    ``(g)(1) <<NOTE: Establishment.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law and subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of the 
Treasury is authorized to establish, for a period of three years from 
date of enactment of this provision, a personnel management 
demonstration project providing for the compensation and performance 
management of not more than a combined total of 950 employees who fill 
critical scientific, technical, engineering, intelligence analyst, 
language translator, and medical positions in the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms, the United States Customs Service, and the United 
States Secret Service.

    ``(2) The provisions of subsections (b) through (f) and subsection 
(h) shall apply to the demonstration project authorized by paragraph (1) 
except that--
            ``(A) any reference in such subsections to the Director of 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall include a reference to 
        the Secretary of the Treasury;
            ``(B) the operating plan required by subsection (d) shall be 
        submitted not later than February 1, 1999 to the House and 
        Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
        Government Reform and Oversight, the Senate Committee on 
        Governmental Affairs, the House Committee on Ways and Means, and 
        the Senate Committee on Finance; and
            ``(C) the report required by subsection (f) shall be 
        submitted not later than March 31, 2001.''; and

    (2) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows--
    ``(h) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> The authority to establish a 
demonstration project under this section shall terminate on November 26, 
2000.''.

    Sec. 103. Section 824 of the Foreign Service Act <<NOTE: 22 USC 
4064.>> is amended:
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A) by inserting ``or in the case of 
        a waiver under subsection (g)'' after ``subsection (b)''; and
            (2) by adding the following new subsections (g) and (h) at 
        the end:

    ``(g) The Secretary of State may waive the application of the 
paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, on a case-by-case basis,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-586]]

for an annuitant reemployed on a temporary basis, but only if, and for 
so long as, the authority is necessary due to an emergency involving a 
direct threat to life or property or other unusual circumstances.
    ``(h) A reemployed annuitant as to whom a waiver under subsection 
(g) is in effect shall not be considered a participant for purposes of 
subchapter I or subchapter II, or an employee for purposes of chapter 83 
or 84 of title 5, United States Code.''.
    Sec. 104. Title II of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-399) is amended by adding the 
following new section at the end:

``SEC. 206. <<NOTE: 22 USC 4824.>> CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.

    ``The Secretary of State is authorized to employ individuals or 
organizations by contract to carry out the purposes of this Act, and 
individuals employed by contract to perform such services shall not by 
virtue of such employment be considered to be employees of the United 
States Government for purposes of any law administered by the Office of 
Personnel Management (except that the Secretary may determine the 
applicability to such individuals of any law administered by the 
Secretary concerning the employment of such individuals); and such 
contracts are authorized to be negotiated, the terms of the contracts to 
be prescribed, and the work to be performed, where necessary, without 
regard to such statutory provisions as relate to the negotiation, making 
and performance of contracts and performance of work in the United 
States.''.

    Sec. 106. Intrastate Bus Transportation in Hawaii. Section 
14501(a)(1) of Title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``operations'' and inserting ``operations, or to intrastate bus 
transportation of any nature in the State of Hawaii''.
    Sec. 107. Provisions of 23 U.S.C. 125(b)(1) shall not apply to 
emergency relief projects resulting from the flooding in the State of 
California in January and March 1995.
      Sec. 108. For the purpose of any Rule of the House of 
Representatives, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
obligation limitation relating to surface transportation projects under 
section 1602 of P.L. 105-178 shall be assumed to be administered on the 
basis of sound program management practices that are consistent with 
past practices of the administering agency permitting States to decide 
High Priority Project funding priorities within state program 
allocations.

    Sec. 109. Operation of <<NOTE: 49 USC 31701 note.>> Trailers. (a) 
Registration of Trailers.--A State that requires annual registration of 
container chassis and the apportionment of fees for such registrations 
in accordance with the International Registration Plan (as defined under 
section 31701 of title 49, United States Code) shall not limit the 
operation, or require the registration, in the State of a container 
chassis (or impose fines or penalties on the operation of a container 
chassis for being operated in the State without a registration issued by 
the State) if such chassis--
            (1) is registered under the laws of another State; and
            (2) is operating under a trip permit issued by the State.

    (b) Limitation on Registration of Trailers.--A State described in 
subsection (a) may not deny the use of trip permits for the operation in 
the State of a container chassis that is registered under the laws of 
another State.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-587]]

    (c) Safety Regulation.--This section shall apply to registration 
requirements only and shall not affect the ability of the State to 
regulate for safety.
    (d) Penalties.--No State described in subsection (a), political 
subdivision of such a State, or person may impose or collect any fee, 
penalty, fine, or other form of damages which is based in whole or in 
part upon the nonpayment of a State registration fee (including related
weight and licensing fees assessed as part of registration) attributable 
to a container chassis operated in the State (and registered in another 
State) before the date of enactment of this Act, unless it is shown by 
the State, political subdivision, or person that such container chassis 
was not operated in the State under a trip permit issued by the State.

    (e) Container Chassis Defined.--In this section, the term 
``container chassis'' means a trailer, semi-trailer, or auxiliary axle 
used exclusively for the transportation of ocean shipping containers.
    Sec. 110. Reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration. 
(a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Period of Applicability of Certain 
Amendments.--Effective September 29, 1998, section 125 of the Federal 
Aviation Reauthorization Act of 1996 (49 U.S.C. 47114 note; 110 Stat. 
3220) is repealed.

    (b) Airport Improvement Program.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 48103 of title 
        49, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 1998''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$2,280,000,000'' and all that 
                follows through the period at the end and inserting the 
                following: ``$1,205,000,000 for the six-month period 
                beginning October 1, 1998''.
            (2) Obligational authority.--Section 47104(c) of title 49, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``September 30, 
        1998'' and inserting ``March 31, 1999''.

    (c) Aviation Insurance Program Amendments.--
            (1) Reimbursement of insured party's subrogee.--Section 
        44309(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
        follows:

    ``(a) Losses.--
            ``(1) Actions against united states.--A person may bring a 
        civil action in a district court of the United States or in the 
        United States Court of Federal Claims against the United States 
        Government when--
                    ``(A) a loss insured under this chapter is in 
                dispute; or
                    ``(B)(i) the person is subrogated under a contract 
                between the person and a party insured under this 
                chapter (other than section 44305(b)) to the rights of 
                the insured party against the United States Government; 
                and
                    ``(ii) the person has paid to the insured party, 
                with the approval of the Secretary of Transportation, an 
                amount for a physical damage loss that the Secretary has 
                determined is a loss covered by insurance issued under 
                this chapter (other than section 44305(b)).
            ``(2) Limitation.--A civil action involving the same matter 
        (except the action authorized by this subsection) may not be 
        brought against an agent, officer, or employee of the Government 
        carrying out this chapter.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-588]]

            ``(3) Procedure.--To the extent applicable, the procedure in 
        an action brought under section 1346(a)(2) of title 28, United 
        States Code, applies to an action under this subsection.''.
            (2) Extension of aviation insurance program.--Section 44310 
        of such title is amended by striking ``December 31, 1998.'' and 
        inserting ``March 31, 1999.''.

    (d) Eligibility of AIP Funds to Assess Y2K Compliance.--
            (1) Eligibility.--For fiscal year 1999 the term ``airport 
        development'' under section 47102(3) of title 49, United States 
        Code, may include activities of an airport sponsor of a 
        commercial service airport (as defined by section 47102(7) of 
        such title) to assess the Year 2000 processing capabilities of 
        any airport facilities, technology systems, or equipment owned 
        by the airport sponsor and directly related to airport 
        activities, regardless of whether such facilities, systems, or 
        equipment are otherwise eligible for assistance under chapter 
        471 of such title. Such activities may include testing 
        associated with such assessment.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Only funds apportioned to sponsors under section 
                47114(c) of title 49, United States Code, or to States 
                under subsections (d) and (e) of section 47114 of such 
                title, may be used for activities described in paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) The expanded eligibility under paragraph (1) 
                applies only to the assessment (and associated testing) 
                with respect to the Year 2000 processing capabilities of 
                airport facilities, systems, and equipment owned by the 
                airport sponsor.
            (3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``Year 2000 
        processing'' means the processing (including, without 
        limitation, calculating, comparing, sequencing, displaying, or 
        storing), transmitting, or
receiving of date or date/time data from, into, and between the 
twentieth and twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 2000, and 
leap year calculations.

    (e) Scorekeeping Adjustment.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budget 
Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the Joint Explanatory Statement of 
the Committee of Conference accompanying Conference Report No. 105-217, 
legislation in this section that would have been estimated by the Office 
of Management and Budget as changing direct spending or receipts under 
section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 were it included in an Act other than an appropriation Act shall be 
treated as direct spending or receipts legislation, as appropriate, 
under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
    (f) Joint Venture Agreements.
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 417 is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 41716. Joint venture agreements <<NOTE: 49 USC 41716.>> 

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Joint venture agreement.--The term `joint venture 
        agreement' means an agreement entered into by a major air 
        carrier on or after January 1, 1998, with regard to (A) code-
        sharing, blocked-space arrangements, long-term wet leases (as 
        defined in section 207.1 of title 14, Code of Federal 
        Regulations)

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-589]]

        of a substantial number (as defined by the Secretary by 
        regulation) of aircraft, or frequent flyer programs, or (B) any 
        other cooperative working arrangement (as defined by the 
        Secretary by regulation) between 2 or more major air carriers 
        that affects more than 15 percent of the total number of 
        available seat miles offered by the major air carriers.
            ``(2) Major air carrier.--The term `major air carrier' means 
        a passenger air carrier that is certificated under chapter 411 
        of this title and included in Carrier Group III under criteria 
        contained in section 04 of part 241 of title 14, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
      ``(b) Submission of Joint Venture Agreement.--At least 30 days 
before a joint venture agreement may take effect, each of the major air 
carriers that entered into the agreement shall submit to the Secretary--
            ``(1) a complete copy of the joint venture agreement and all 
        related agreements; and
            ``(2) other information and documentary material that the 
        Secretary may require by regulation.

    ``(c) Extension of Waiting Period.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may extend the 30-day 
        period referred to in subsection (b) until--
                    ``(A) in the case of a joint venture agreement with 
                regard to code-sharing, the 150th day following the last 
                day of such period; and
                    ``(B) in the case of any other joint venture 
                agreement, the 60th day following the last day of such 
                period.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> Publication 
        of reasons for extension.--If the Secretary extends the 30-day 
        period referred to in subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
        publish in the Federal Register the Secretary's reasons for 
        making the extension.
      ``(d) Termination of Waiting Period.--At any time after the date 
of submission of a joint venture agreement under subsection (b), the 
Secretary may terminate the waiting periods referred to in subsections 
(b) and (c) with respect to the agreement.
      ``(e) Regulations.--The effectiveness of a joint venture agreement 
may not be delayed due to any failure of the Secretary to issue 
regulations to carry out this section.
      ``(f) Memorandum To Prevent Duplicative Reviews.--Promptly after 
the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall consult with 
the Assistant Attorney General of the Antitrust Division of the 
Department of Justice in order to establish, through a written 
memorandum of understanding, preclearance procedures to prevent 
unnecessary duplication of effort by the Secretary and the Assistant 
Attorney General under this section and the antitrust laws of the United 
States, respectively.
      ``(g) Prior Agreements.--With respect to a joint venture agreement 
entered into before the date of enactment of this section as to which 
the Secretary finds that--
            ``(1) the parties submitted the agreement to the Secretary 
        before such date of enactment; and
            ``(2) the parties submitted all information on the agreement 
        requested by the Secretary,

the waiting period described in paragraphs (2) and (3) shall begin on 
the date, as determined by the Secretary, on which all such information 
was submitted and end on the last day to which the period could be 
extended under this section.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-590]]

      ``(h) Limitation on Statutory Construction.--The authority granted 
to the Secretary under this section shall not in any way limit the 
authority of the Attorney General to enforce the antitrust laws as 
defined in the first section of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12).''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The analysis for subchapter I of 
        chapter 417 is amended by adding at the end the following:

``41716. Joint venture agreements.''.

    (g) Competitive Practices in the Airline Industry.--
            (1) National Research Council.--
                    (a) Study.--The National Research Council of the 
                National Academy of Sciences shall complete a 
                comprehensive update of the 1991 study of airline 
                deregulation prepared by the Transportation Research 
                Board of the Council. The update shall include updated 
                versions of the chapters contained in the study 
                pertaining to competitive issues in the airline industry 
                as well as recommendations for changes in the statutory 
                framework under which the airline industry operates.
                    (b) Report by national research council.--Not later 
                than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                the National Research Council shall transmit to Congress 
                and the Secretary of Transportation a report containing 
                the results of the study conducted under paragraph (a).
                    (c) Report by the secretary.--Not later than 2 
                months after the date on which the Secretary receives 
                the report of the National Research Council under 
                paragraph (b), the Secretary shall transmit to Congress 
                a report containing the response of the Secretary to the 
                findings and recommendations of the National Research 
                Council.
            (2) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall conduct a study 
        and transmit to Congress a report that includes--
                    (a) a description of any complaints received by the 
                Secretary concerning acts of unfair competition or 
                predatory pricing in the airline industry (including the 
                number of such complaints) and of specific examples of 
                such acts;
                    (b) a description of the options of the Secretary 
                for addressing any acts of unfair competition or 
                predatory pricing identified under paragraph (a);
                    (c) an analysis of the guidelines proposed in Docket 
                OST-98-3713, including information documenting and 
                quantifying the impact of the guidelines on the items 
                listed in subsection (3)(c); and
                    (d) a description of the manner in which the 
                Secretary plans to coordinate the handling of predatory 
                pricing and unfair competition complaints against air 
                carriers filed with the Secretary and similar complaints 
                filed with the Attorney General, including methods to 
                ensure efficient use of limited government resources and 
                to ensure that all parties avoid duplicate requests by 
                government agencies for information unless each of the 
                agencies needs the information to carry out its 
                statutory responsibilities.
            (3) Guidelines.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-591]]

                    (a) Issuance.--The Secretary shall not issue final 
                guidelines in Docket OST-98-3713 before the date of 
                transmittal to Congress of a report under subsection 
                (2).
                    (b) Transmittal to congress.--If the Secretary 
                issues final guidelines in Docket OST-98-3713, the 
                Secretary shall transmit the guidelines to Congress.
                    (c) Impact of guidelines.--If, as a result of the 
                study conducted under subsection (2), the Secretary 
                decides to issue final guidelines in Docket OST-98-3713 
                that are different from the guidelines originally 
                proposed, the Secretary shall, as part of the 
                transmittal under paragraph (b), include information 
                that documents and quantifies the impact of the 
                guidelines on the following:
                          (i) Scheduled service to small- and medium-
                      sized communities.
                          (ii) Airfares, including the availability of 
                      senior citizen, Internet, and standby discounts on 
                      routes covered by the guidelines.
                          (iii) The incentive and ability of major air 
                      carriers to offer low airfares.
                          (iv) The incentive of new entrant air carriers 
                      to offer low airfares.
                          (v) The ability of air carriers to offer 
                      inclusive leisure travel for which airfares are 
                      not separately advertised.
                          (vi) Members of frequent flyer programs.
                          (vii) The ability of air carriers to carry 
                      nonorigination and destination traffic on the 
                      portion of routes that are served by new entrant 
                      air carriers covered by the guidelines.
                          (viii) Airline employees.
            (4) Consultation.--In conducting the study under section 
        (2), the Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General, 
        major air carriers, new entrant air carriers, airport and 
        community leaders, academic and economic experts, and airline 
        employees and passengers.
            (5) Effective Date.--The guidelines adopted in Docket OST-
        98-3713, or any similar guidelines, shall not become effective 
        before the last day of the 12-week period beginning on the date 
        of transmittal to Congress of final guidelines in Docket OST-98-
        3713, except that a week shall not count toward such 12-week 
        period unless the House of Representatives is in session for 
        legislative business at least 1 day during the week.

    Sec. 111. Steel Imports Into the United States. (a) Findings.--
Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The current financial crises in Asia, the independent 
        States of the former Soviet Union (as defined in section 3 of 
        the FREEDOM Support Act), Russia, and other areas of the world, 
        involve significant depreciation in the currencies of several 
        key steel-producing and steel-consuming countries, along with a 
        collapse in the domestic demand for steel in the countries.
            (2) The crises have generated and will continue to generate 
        increases in United States imports of steel, both from the 
        countries whose currencies have been depreciated and from other 
        Asian steel-producing countries that are no longer able

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-592]]

        to export steel to the countries that are experiencing an 
        economic crisis.
            (3) United States imports of finished steel mill products 
        from Asian steel-producing countries, such as the People's 
        Republic of China, Japan, Korea, India, Taiwan, Indonesia, 
        Thailand, and Malaysia, increased by 79 percent in the first 5 
        months of 1998.
            (4) Year-to-date imports of steel from Russia now exceed the 
        record import levels of 1997, and steel imports from Russia and 
        the Ukraine now approach 2,500,000 net tons.
            (5) Foreign government trade restrictions and private 
        restraints of trade distort international trade and investment 
        patterns and result in burdens on United States commerce, 
        including absorption of a disproportionate share of steel 
        diverted from other countries.
            (6) The European Union, for example, despite also being a 
        major economy, in 1997 imported only one-tenth as much finished 
        steel products from Asian steel-producing countries as the 
        United States did and has restricted imports of steel from the 
        independent states of the former Soviet Union and Russia.
            (7) The United States is simultaneously facing a substantial 
        increase in steel imports from the independent states of the 
        former Soviet Union and Russia, caused in part by the closure of 
        Asian markets to steel imports.
            (8) There is a well recognized need for improvement in the 
        enforcement of the United States trade laws to provide an 
        effective response to situations of such increased imports.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress calls upon the President to--
            (1) pursue enhanced enforcement of the United States trade 
        laws with respect to the increase in steel imports into the 
        United States, using all remedies available under United States 
        laws including imposition of offsetting duties, quantitative 
        restrictions, and other appropriate remedial measures;
            (2) pursue with all methods at the President's disposal to 
        achieve a more equitable sharing of the burden of accepting 
        imports of finished steel products from Asia and the independent 
        states of the former Soviet Union;
            (3) establish a task force within the executive branch that 
        has responsibility for closely monitoring imports of steel into 
        the United States; and
            (4) report to Congress not later than January 5, 1999, with 
        a comprehensive plan for responding to the increase in steel 
        imports, including ways of limiting the deleterious effects on 
        employment, prices, and investment in the United States steel 
        industry.

    Sec. 112. Inclusion of Spirit Mound, South Dakota, on the Lewis and 
Clark Trail. (a) Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to acquire on a willing seller basis, at a cost of not to 
exceed $600,000, the tract of land known as ``Spirit Mound'', located on 
South Dakota Highway 19 near Vermilion, South Dakota.
    (b) Inclusion on the Lewis and Clark Trail.--The tract described in 
subsection (a) shall be administered as part of the Lewis and Clark 
National Historic Trail.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-593]]

    (c) Cooperative Agreement.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
enter into a cooperative agreement with Lewis and Clark/Spirit Mound 
Trust Inc., providing for the restoration, interpretation, and long-term 
preservation of, and public access to, Spirit Mound.
    Sec. 113. (a) Designation of Dick Cheney Federal Building.--The 
Federal Building and Post Office located at 100 East B Street, Casper, 
Wyoming, shall be known and designated as the ``Dick Cheney Federal 
Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Federal Building and 
Post Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the ``Dick Cheney Federal Building''.
    Sec. 114. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
297 Larkfield Road in East Northport, New York, shall be known and 
designated as the ``Jerome Anthony Ambro, Jr. Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Jerome Anthony Ambro, Jr. Post Office Building''.

    Sec. 115. Designation of Lieutenant Henry O. Flipper Station. (a) In 
General.--The facility of the United States Postal Service located at 
Tall Timbers Village Square, United States Highway 19 South, in 
Thomasville, Georgia, shall be known and designated as the ``Lieutenant 
Henry O. Flipper Station''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the facility of the 
United States Postal Service referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the ``Lieutenant Henry O. Flipper Station''.
    Sec. 116. William R. ``Billy'' Rolle Post Office Building. (a) 
Designation.--The United States Postal Service building located at 3191 
Grand Avenue in Coconut Grove, Florida, shall be known and designated as 
the ``William R. `Billy' Rolle Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``William R. 
`Billy' Rolle Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 117. Helen Miller Post Office Building. (a) Designation.--The 
United States Postal Service building located at 550 Fisherman Street in 
Opa Locka, Florida, shall be known and designated as the ``Helen Miller 
Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Helen 
Miller Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 118. Essie Silva Post Office Building. (a) Designation.--The 
United States Postal Service building located at 18690 N.W. 37th Avenue 
in Carol City, Florida, shall be known and designated as the ``Essie 
Silva Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Essie Silva 
Post Office Building''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-594]]

    Sec. 119. Athalie Range Post Office Building. (a) Designation.--The 
United States Postal Service building located at 500 North West 2d 
Avenue in Miami, Florida, shall be known and designated as the ``Athalie 
Range Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Athalie 
Range Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 120. Garth Reeves, Sr. Post Office Building. (a) Designation.--
The United States Postal Service building located at 995 North West 
119th Street in Miami, Florida, shall be known and designated as the 
``Garth Reeves, Sr. Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Garth 
Reeves, Sr. Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 121. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
16250 Highway 603 in Kiln, Mississippi, shall be known and designated as 
the ``Ray J. Favre Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Ray J. Favre Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 122. (a) Redesignation.--The building of the United States 
Postal Service located at 2419 West Monroe Street, in Chicago, Illinois, 
and known as the Midwest
Post Office Building, shall be known and designated as the ``Nancy B. 
Jefferson Post Office Building''.

    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Nancy B. 
Jefferson Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 123. (a) Redesignation.--The facility of the United States 
Postal Service located at 9719 Candelaria Road NE in Albuquerque, New 
Mexico, and known as the Eldorado Station Post Office, shall be known 
and designated as the ``Steve Schiff Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the facility referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Steve 
Schiff Post Office''.
    Sec. 124. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
860 Penniman Avenue in Plymouth, Michigan, shall be known and designated 
as the ``Carl D. Pursell Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Carl D. Pursell Post Office''.
    Sec. 125. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
202 Center Street in Garwood, New Jersey, shall be known and designated 
as the ``James T. Leonard, Sr. Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``James T. Leonard, Sr. Post Office''.
    Sec. 126. Edgar C. Campbell, Sr., Post Office Building. (a) 
Designation.--The United States Postal Service building located at 658 
63rd Street, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-595]]

be known and designated as the ``Edgar C. Campbell, Sr., Post Office 
Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Edgar C. 
Campbell, Sr., Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 127. David P. Richardson, Jr., Post Office Building. (a) 
Designation.--The United States Postal Service building located at 5209 
Greene Street, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, shall be known and 
designated as the ``David P. Richardson, Jr., Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``David P. 
Richardson, Jr., Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 128. (a) Redesignation.--The building of the United States 
Postal Service located at 324 South Laramie Street, in Chicago, 
Illinois, and known as the Austin Post Office Building, shall be known 
and designated as the ``Reverend Milton R. Brunson Post Office 
Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Reverend 
Milton R. Brunson Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 129. Designation. (a) In General.--The facility of the United 
States Postal Service located at 3750 North Kedzie Avenue in Chicago, 
Illinois, shall be known and designated as the ``Daniel J. Doffyn Post 
Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office building referred
to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Daniel 
J. Doffyn Post Office Building''.

    Sec. 130. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
215 East Jackson Street in Painesville, Ohio, as the ``Karl Bernal Post 
Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Karl Bernal Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 131. (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 
95 West #100 South in Provo, Utah, shall be known and designated as the 
``Howard C. Nielson Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Howard C. Nielson Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 132. (a) Designation.--The United States Postal Service 
building located at 11550 Livingston Road, in Fort Washington, Maryland, 
shall be known and designated as the ``Jacob Joseph Chestnut Post Office 
Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Jacob 
Joseph Chestnut Post Office Building''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-596]]

    Sec. 133. (a) Designation.--The Federal building located at 309 
North Church Street in Dyersburg, Tennessee, shall be known and 
designated as the ``Jere Cooper Federal Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Federal building 
referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``Jere Cooper Federal Building''.
    Sec. 134. Notwithstanding any other law, sections 101 (d), (k), (p), 
(s) and (x) of the Omnibus Personnel Reform Amendment Act of 1998, D.C. 
Law 12-124, effective June 11, 1998, are enacted into law.
    Sec. 135. (a) Any right, title, or interest of the United States in 
the property described in subsection (b) is hereby waived.
    (b) The property described in this subsection is certain real 
property comprised of approximately 106.94 acres of land located in Anne 
Arundel County in the State of Maryland, said property being originally 
approximately 144.5 acres of land granted to the United States to be 
held in title by the ``Commissioners of the District of Columbia on 
behalf of the United States of America'', in fee simple, by a Judgment 
of Taking in U.S. District Court, Civil Action Number 2391, saving and 
excepting therefrom approximately 37.57 acres of land by deed dated June 
17, 1947, and recorded at Liber 584, Folio 591.
    Sec. 136. Flood Mitigation Near Pierre, South Dakota. (a) In 
General.--
            (1) Land acquisition.--To provide full operational 
        capability to carry out the authorized purposes of the Missouri 
        River Main Stem dams that are part of the Pick-Sloan Missouri 
        River Basin Program authorized by section 9 of the Act entitled 
        ``An Act authorizing the construction of certain public works on 
        rivers and harbors for flood control, and other purposes'', 
        approved December 22, 1944, the Secretary may acquire from 
        willing sellers such land and property in the vicinity of 
        Pierre, South Dakota, or floodproof or relocate such property 
        within the project area, as the Secretary determines is 
        adversely affected by the full wintertime Oahe Powerplant 
        releases.
            (2) Ownership and use.--Any land that is acquired under this 
        authority shall be kept in public
ownership and will be dedicated and maintained in perpetuity for a use 
that is compatible with any remaining flood threat.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall not obligate 
                funds to implement this paragraph until the Secretary 
                has completed a report addressing the criteria for 
                selecting which properties are to be acquired, relocated 
                or floodproofed, and a plan for implementing such 
                measures and has made a determination that the measures 
                are economically justified.
                    (B) Deadline.--The report shall be completed not 
                later than 180 days after funding is made available.
            (4) Coordination and cooperation.--The report and 
        implementation plan--
                    (A) shall be coordinated with the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency; and
                    (B) shall be prepared in consultation with other 
                Federal agencies, and State and local officials, and 
                residents.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-597]]

            (5) Considerations.--Such report should take into account 
        information from prior and ongoing studies.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $35,000,000.
    Sec. 137. Grand Forks, North Dakota, and East Grand Forks, 
Minnesota.--The following project for water resources development and 
conservation and other purposes is authorized to be carried out by the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
substantially in accordance with the plans, and subject to the 
conditions recommended in a final report of the Chief of Engineers as 
approved by the Secretary, if the report of the Chief is completed not 
later than December 31, 1998: The project for flood damage reduction and 
recreation, Grand Forks, North Dakota, and East Grand Forks, Minnesota, 
at a total cost of $307,750,000, with an estimated Federal cost of 
$154,360,000 and an estimated non-Federal cost of $153,390,000.
    Sec. 138. Police Corps Act. (a) Training Period.--
            (1) In general.--Section 200108 of the Police Corps Act (42 
        U.S.C. 14097) is amended by striking subsection (b) and 
        inserting the following:

    ``(b) Training Sessions.--A participant in a State Police Corps 
program shall attend up to 24 weeks, but no less than 16 weeks, of 
training at a training center. The Director may approve training 
conducted in not more than 3 separate sessions.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 200108(c) of the Police 
        Corps Act (42 U.S.C. 14097(c)) is amended by striking ``16 weeks 
        of''.

    (b) Reauthorization.--Section 200112 of the Police Corps Act (42 
U.S.C. 14101) is amended by striking ``$20,000'' and all that follows 
before the period and inserting ``$50,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$70,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and 
$90,000,000 for fiscal year 2002''.
    Sec. 139. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>> Congressional Gold Medals and 
Commemorative Coins. (a) Little Rock Nine.--
            (1) The Congress hereby finds the following:
                    (A) Jean Brown Trickey, Carlotta Walls LaNier, Melba 
                Patillo Beals, Terrence Roberts, Gloria Ray Karlmark, 
                Thelma Mothershed Wair, Ernest Green, Elizabeth Eckford, 
                and Jefferson Thomas, hereafter in this section referred 
                to as the ``Little Rock Nine'', voluntarily subjected 
                themselves to the bitter stinging pains of racial 
                bigotry.
                    (B) The Little Rock Nine are civil rights pioneers 
                whose selfless acts considerably advanced the civil 
                rights debate in this country.
                    (C) The Little Rock Nine risked their lives to 
                integrate Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, 
                and subsequently the Nation.
                    (D) The Little Rock Nine sacrificed their innocence 
                to protect the American principle that we are all ``one 
                Nation, under God, indivisible''.
                    (E) The Little Rock Nine have indelibly left their 
                mark on the history of the Nation.
                    (F) The Little Rock Nine have continued to work 
                toward equality for all Americans.
            (2)(A) The President is authorized to present, on behalf of 
        Congress, to Jean Brown Trickey, Carlotta Walls LaNier, Melba 
        Patillo Beals, Terrence Roberts, Gloria Ray Karlmark,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-598]]

        Thelma Mothershed Wair, Ernest Green, Elizabeth Eckford, and 
        Jefferson Thomas, commonly referred to as the ``Little Rock 
        Nine'', gold medals of appropriate design, in recognition of the 
        selfless heroism such individuals exhibited and the pain they 
        suffered in the cause of civil rights by integrating Central 
        High School in Little Rock, Arkansas.
            (B) For purposes of the presentation referred to in 
        subsection (A) the Secretary of the Treasury shall strike a gold 
        medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be 
        determined by the Secretary for each recipient.
            (C) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective October 1, 1998, 
        there be authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
        necessary to carry out this subsection.
            (3)(A) The Secretary of the Treasury may strike and sell 
        duplicates in bronze of the gold medals struck pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(2)(B) under such regulations as the Secretary may 
        prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, 
        including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead 
        expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.
            (B) The appropriation used to carry out this subsection 
        shall be reimbursed out of the proceeds of sales under 
        subsection (a)(3)(A).
            (4) The medals struck pursuant to this subsection are 
        national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United 
        States Code.

    (b) Gerald R. and Betty Ford.--
            (1) The President is authorized to present, on behalf of the 
        Congress, to Gerald R. and Betty Ford a gold medal of 
        appropriate design--
                    (A) in recognition of their dedicated public service 
                and outstanding humanitarian contributions to the people 
                of the United States; and
                    (B) in commemoration of the following occasions in 
                1998:
                          (i) The 85th anniversary of the birth of 
                      President Ford.
                          (ii) The 80th anniversary of the birth of Mrs. 
                      Ford.
                          (iii) The 50th wedding anniversary of 
                      President and Mrs. Ford.
                          (iv) The 50th anniversary of the 1st election 
                      of Gerald R. Ford to the United States to the 
                      United States House of Representatives.
                          (v) The 25th anniversary of the approval of 
                      Gerald R. Ford by the Congress to become Vice 
                      President of the United States.
            (2) For purposes of the presentation referred to in 
        subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of the Treasury shall strike a 
        gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to 
        be determined by the Secretary.
            (3) There are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed 
        $20,000 to carry out this subsection.
            (4) The Secretary of the Treasury may strike and sell 
        duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to 
        subsection (b)(2) under such regulations as the Secretary may 
        prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, 
        including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead 
        expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-599]]

            (5) The appropriation used to carry out this subsection 
        shall be reimbursed out of the proceeds of sales under 
        subsection (b)(4).
            (6) The medals struck pursuant to this subsection are 
        national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United 
        States Code.

    (c) <<NOTE: 31 USC 5112 note.>> 6-Month Extension for Certain 
Sales.--Notwithstanding section 101(7)(D) of the United States 
Commemorative Coin Act of 1996, the Secretary of the Treasury may, at 
any time before January 1, 1999, make bulk sales at a reasonable 
discount to the Jackie Robinson Foundation of not less than 20 percent 
of any denomination of proof and uncirculated coins minted under section 
101(7) of such Act which remained unissued as of July 1, 1998, except 
that the total number of coins of any such denomination which were 
issued under such section or this section may not exceed the amount of 
such denomination of coins which were authorized to be minted and issued 
under section 101(7)(A) of such Act.

    Sec. 140. (a) Land Conveyance, San Joaquin County, California.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
seq.)), the Attorney General shall convey, by quit claim deed and by 
negotiated sale, to the City of Tracy, California (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), the interest of the United States in a 
parcel of real property consisting of approximately 200 acres located in 
San Joaquin County, California, and currently administered by the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons of the Department of Justice. The Attorney 
General shall complete the conveyance to the City not later than 120 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Attorney General. 
The cost of the survey shall be borne by the City.
    (c) Purpose of Conveyance.--The purpose of the real property 
conveyance under subsection (a) is to permit the City to use 
approximately 150 acres of the conveyed property as the location of a 
joint secondary and post secondary educational facility and for other 
educational purposes and to use approximately 50 acres of the conveyed 
property for economic development. In the event that the City determines 
that a joint secondary and post secondary educational facility is 
unfeasible for the 150-acre portion of the conveyed property, the City 
shall use up to 50 acres of that portion for at least 30 years as the 
location for a secondary school and for other educational purposes and 
use up to 100 acres of that portion as a public park and for other 
recreational purposes.
    (d) Conditions on Use.--(1) The use of the real property conveyed 
under subsection (a) for educational purposes, as provided in subsection 
(c), shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of Education.
    (2) The use of the conveyed real property for economic development, 
as provided in subsection (c), shall be subject to the approval of the 
Attorney General.
    (3) If a portion of the conveyed real property is used as a public 
park or for other recreational purposes, as provided in subsection (c), 
the use of such portion shall be subject to the approval of the 
Secretary of the Interior.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-600]]

    (e) Reversionary Interests.--(1) If the Secretary of Education 
determines at any time that the portion of the real property conveyed 
under subsection (a) that is to be used for educational purposes is not 
being used for such purposes, all right, title, and interest in and to 
that portion of the property, including any improvements thereon, shall 
revert to the United States.
    (2) If the Attorney General determines at any time that the portion 
of the real property conveyed under subsection (a) that is to be used 
for economic development is not being used for such purposes, all right, 
title, and interest in and to that portion of the property, including 
any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States.
    (3) If a portion of the real property conveyed under subsection (a) 
is used as a public park or for other recreational purposes, as provided 
in subsection (c), and the Secretary of the Interior determines that 
such portion is no longer being used for such purposes, all right, 
title, and interest in and to that portion of the property, including 
any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Attorney General may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (a) as the Attorney General considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
    Sec. 141. <<NOTE: Lorton Technical Corrections Act of 1998.>> (a) 
Short Title. This section may be cited as the ``Lorton Technical 
Corrections Act of 1998''.

    (b) Transfer of Land to General Services Administration. Section 
11201 of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; D.C. Code 24-1201) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating the second subsection (g) and 
        subsection (h) as subsections (h) and (i);
            (2) in subsection (g)(1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``Notwithstanding'';
                    (B) by striking ``Except as provided in paragraph 
                (2)'' and all that follows through ``Department of the 
                Interior.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraphs:
            ``(B) <<NOTE: Government organization.>> Contingent on the 
        General Services Administration (GSA) receiving the necessary 
        appropriations to carry out the requirements of this paragraph 
        and subsection (g), and notwithstanding the Federal Property and 
        Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.), not 
        later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of the Lorton 
        Technical Corrections Act of 1998, any property on which the 
        Lorton Correctional Complex is located shall be transferred to 
        the GSA.
            ``(C) Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
        of the Lorton Technical Corrections Act of 1998, Fairfax County 
        shall submit a reuse plan that complies with all requisite 
        approvals to the Administrator of General Services, that aims to 
        maximize use of the land for open space, park land, or 
        recreation, while delineating permissible or required uses, 
        potential development densities, and any time limits on such 
        development factors of the property on which the Lorton 
        Correctional Complex is located.
            ``(D) Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of the Lorton Technical Corrections Act of 1998, the 
        Secretary

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-601]]

        of the Interior shall notify GSA of any property it requests to 
        be transferred to the Department of the Interior for the purpose 
        of a land exchange by the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service within the Commonwealth of Virginia or such other 
        purposes consistent with the reuse plan developed by Fairfax 
        County as the Secretary may request. The Administrator of 
        General Services shall approve the Secretary's request to the 
        extent that the request is consistent with the reuse plan 
        developed by Fairfax County and does not result in a significant 
        reduction in the marketability or value of any remaining 
        property. The Administrator of General Services shall coordinate 
        with the Secretary of the Interior to resolve any conflicts 
        presented by the Department of the Interior's request and shall 
        transfer the property to the Department of the Interior at no 
        cost.
            ``(E) Any property not transferred to the Department of the 
        Interior under subparagraph (D) shall be disposed of according 
        to paragraphs (2) and (4).'';
            (3) in subsection (g)(2)(A)(ii) by striking ``Department of 
        Parks and Recreation'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Park Authority'';
            (4) in subsection (g) by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(4) Conditions on transfer of lorton property east of ox 
        road (state route 123).--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to property east of 
                Ox Road (State Route 123) on which the Lorton 
                Correctional Complex is located, the Administrator of 
                General Services shall--
                          ``(i) cooperate with the District of Columbia 
                      Corrections Trustee to determine property 
                      necessary for the Trustee to
maintain the security of the Lorton Correctional Complex until its 
closure;
                          ``(ii) prepare a report of title, complete a 
                      property description, provide protection and 
                      maintenance, conduct an environmental assessment 
                      of the property to determine the extent of 
                      contamination, complete National Environmental 
                      Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq.) and 
                      National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 
                      et seq.) processes for closure and disposal of the 
                      property, and provide an estimate of the cost for 
                      remediation and contingent on receiving the 
                      necessary appropriations complete the remediation 
                      in compliance with applicable Federal and State 
                      environmental laws;
                          ``(iii) develop a disposition strategy 
                      incorporating the Fairfax County reuse plan and 
                      the Department of the Interior's land transfer 
                      request, and resolve conflicts between the plan 
                      and the transfer request, or between the reuse 
                      plan, the transfer request and the results of the 
                      environmental studies;
                          ``(iv) negotiate with any entity that has a 
                      lease, agreement, memorandum of understanding, 
                      right-of-way, or easement with the District of 
                      Columbia to occupy or utilize any parcels of such 
                      property on the date of the enactment of this 
                      title, to perfect or extend

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-602]]

                      such lease, agreement, memorandum of 
                      understanding, right-of-way, or easement;
                          ``(v) transfer any property identified for use 
                      for open space, park land, or recreation in the 
                      Fairfax County reuse plan to the Northern Virginia 
                      Regional Park Authority, the Fairfax County Park 
                      Authority, or another public entity, subject to 
                      the condition that the recipient use the conveyed 
                      property only for open space, park land, or 
                      recreation and that the transfer be at fair market 
                      value considering the highest and best use of the 
                      property to be open space, park land, and 
                      recreation;
                          ``(vi) not later than 60 days after the 
                      property is transferred to the General Services 
                      Administration, transfer at fair market value the 
                      six-acre parcel east of Shirley Highway on 
                      Interstate 95 to Amtrak, subject to such terms and 
                      conditions as the Administrator determines to be 
                      in the best interest of the United States;
                          ``(vii) dispose of any parcels not reserved by 
                      the Department of the Interior and not otherwise 
                      addressed under this subparagraph at fair market 
                      value, subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                      Administrator determines to be in the best 
                      interest of the United States;
                          ``(viii) deposit any proceeds from the sale of 
                      property on which the Lorton Correctional Complex 
                      is located into a special fund established in the 
                      treasury for purposes of covering real property 
                      utilization and disposal related expenses, 
                      including environmental compliance and remediation 
                      for the Lorton Correctional Complex until all 
                      property has been conveyed; and
                          ``(ix) deposit any remaining funds in the 
                      Policy and Operations appropriation account of the 
                      General Services Administration to be used for 
                      real property utilization and disposal activities 
                      until expended.
                    ``(B) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
                of the receipt of the Fairfax County reuse plan and the 
                Department of the Interior property transfer request by 
                the Administrator of General Services, the Administrator 
                shall report to the Committees on Appropriations and 
                Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
                Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations 
                and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on plans to 
                comply with the terms of this paragraph and any 
                estimated costs associated with such compliance.
                    ``(C) Authorization.--There is authorized to be 
                appropriated such sums as are necessary from the general 
                funds of the Treasury, to remain available until 
                expended, to the Policy and Operations appropriation 
                account of the General Services Administration for the 
                real property utilization and disposal activities in 
                carrying out the provisions of this title.
            ``(5) Jurisdiction.--Any property disposed of according to 
        paragraphs (2) and (4) shall be under the jurisdiction of the 
        Commonwealth of Virginia. Any development of such property and 
        any property transferred to the Department of the Interior

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-603]]

        for exchange purposes shall comply with any applicable planning 
        and zoning requirements of Fairfax County and the Fairfax County 
        reuse plan.''.

    Sec. 142. <<NOTE: Olympic and Amateur Sports Act Amendments of 
1998. 36 USC 101 note.>> Olympic and Amateur Sports. (a) Short Title.--
This section may be cited as the ``Olympic and Amateur Sports Act 
Amendments of 1998''.

    (b) Amendment of Title 36, United States Code; Title of Chapter.--
            (1) Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this 
        section an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
        amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the 
        reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other 
        provision of title 36, United States Code.
            (2) Section 220501 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Definitions'' in the heading and 
                inserting ``Title and Definitions'';
                    (B) by inserting after the heading the following:

    ``(a) <<NOTE: Short title.3Ante, p. 1465.>> Title.--This chapter may 
be cited as the `Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act'.''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``(b) Definitions.--'' immediately 
                before ``For the purposes of''.

    (c) Definitions.--Section 220501 is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``or paralympic sports organization'' after 
        ``national governing body'' in paragraph (1);
            (2) redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (3) inserting after paragraph (6) the following:

    ``(7) `paralympic sports organization' means an amateur sports 
organization which is recognized by the corporation under section 220521 
of this title.''.
    (d) Purposes.--Section 220503 is amended by--
            (1) striking ``Olympic Games'' each place it appears in 
        paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting ``Olympic Games, the 
        Paralympic Games,''; and
            (2) striking paragraph (13) and inserting the following:
            ``(13) to encourage and provide assistance to amateur 
        athletic programs and competition for amateur athletes with 
        disabilities, including, where feasible, the expansion of 
        opportunities for meaningful participation by such amateur 
        athletes in programs of athletic competition for able-bodied 
        amateur athletes; and''.

    (e) Membership.--Section 220504(b) is amended by--
            (1) striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) amateur sports organizations recognized as national 
        governing bodies and paralympic sports organizations in 
        accordance with section 220521 of this title, including through 
        provisions which establish and maintain a National Governing 
        Bodies' Council composed of representatives of the national 
        governing bodies and any paralympic sports organizations and 
        selected by their boards of directors or such other governing 
        boards to ensure effective communication between the corporation 
        and such national governing bodies and paralympic sports 
        organizations;
            ``(2) amateur athletes who are actively engaged in amateur 
        athletic competition or who have represented the United States 
        in international amateur athletic competition within the 
        preceding 10 years, including through provisions which--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-604]]

                    ``(A) <<NOTE: Establishment.>> establish and 
                maintain an Athletes' Advisory Council composed of, and 
                elected by, such amateur athletes to ensure 
                communication between the corporation and such amateur 
                athletes; and
                    ``(B) ensure that the membership and voting power 
                held by such amateur athletes is not less than 20 
                percent of the membership and voting power held in the 
                board of directors of the corporation and in the 
                committees and entities of the corporation;''; and
            (2) inserting a comma and ``the Paralympic Games,'' after 
        ``Olympic Games'' in paragraph (3).

    (f) Powers.--
            (1) General corporate powers.--Section 220505(b)(9) is 
        amended by striking ``sued; and'' and inserting ``sued, except 
        that any civil action brought in a State court against the 
        corporation and solely relating to the corporation's 
        responsibilities under this Act shall be removed, at the request 
        of the corporation, to the district court of the United States 
        in the district in which the action was brought, and such 
        district court shall have original jurisdiction over the action 
        without regard to the amount in controversy or citizenship of 
        the parties involved, and except that neither this paragraph nor 
        any other provision of this chapter shall create a private right 
        of action under this chapter; and''.
            (2) Powers related to amateur athletics and the olympic 
        games.--Section 220505(c) is amended by--
                    (A) striking ``Organization;'' in paragraph (2) and 
                inserting ``Organization and as its national Paralympic 
                committee in relations with the International Paralympic 
                Committee;'';
                    (B) striking ``Games and of'' in paragraph (3) and 
                inserting ``Games, the Paralympic Games, and'';
                    (C) striking ``Games;'' in paragraph (4) and 
                inserting ``Games, or as paralympic sports organizations 
                for any sport that is included on the program of the 
                Paralympic Games;''; and
                    (D) striking ``Games,'' in paragraph (5) and 
                inserting ``Games, the Paralympic Games, the Pan-
                American Games, world championship competition,''.

    (g) Use of Olympic, Paralympic, and Pan-American Symbols.--Section 
220506 is amended by--
            (1) striking ``rings;'' in subsection (a)(2) and inserting 
        ``rings, the symbol of the International Paralympic Committee, 
        consisting of 3 TaiGeuks, or the symbol of the Pan-American 
        Sports Organization, consisting of a torch surrounded by 
        concentric rings;'';
            (2) inserting `` `Paralympic', `Paralympiad', `Pan-
        American', `America Espirito Sport Fraternite','' before ``or 
        any combination'' in subsection (a)(4);
            (3) inserting a comma and ``International Paralympic 
        Committee, the Pan-American Sports Organization,'' after 
        ``International Olympic Committee'' in subsection (b);
            (4) inserting ``the Paralympic team,'' before ``the Pan-
        American team'' in subsection (b);
            (5) inserting a comma and ``Paralympic, or Pan-American 
        Games'' after ``any Olympic'' in subsection (c)(3);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-605]]

            (6) inserting a comma and ``the International Paralympic 
        Committee, the Pan-American Sports Organization,'' after 
        ``International Olympic Committee'' in subsection (c)(4);
            (7) inserting ``AND GEOGRAPHIC REFERENCE'' after ``PRE-
        EXISTING'' in subsection (d); and
            (8) adding at the end of subsection (d) the following:
            ``(3) Use of the word `Olympic' to identify a business or 
        goods or services is permitted by this section where--
                    ``(A) such use is not combined with any of the 
                intellectual properties referenced in subsections (a) or 
                (c) of this section;
                    ``(B) it is evident from the circumstances that such 
                use of the word `Olympic' refers to the naturally 
                occurring mountains or geographical region of the same 
                name that were named prior to February 6, 1998, and not 
                to the corporation or any Olympic activity; and
                    ``(C) such business, goods, or services are 
                operated, sold, and marketed in the State of Washington 
                west of the Cascade Mountain range and operations, 
                sales, and marketing outside of this area are not 
                substantial.''.

    (h) Resolution of Disputes.--Section 220509 is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``(a) General.--'' before ``The corporation'';
            (2) inserting ``the Paralympic Games,'' before ``the Pan-
        American Games'';
            (3) inserting after ``the corporation.'' the following: ``In 
        any lawsuit relating to the resolution of a dispute involving 
        the opportunity of an amateur athlete to participate in the 
        Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, or the Pan-American Games, 
        a court shall not grant injunctive relief against the 
        corporation within 21 days before the beginning of such games if 
        the corporation, after consultation with the chair of the 
        Athletes' Advisory Council, has provided a sworn statement in 
        writing executed by an officer of the corporation to such court 
        that its constitution and bylaws cannot provide for the 
        resolution of such dispute prior to the beginning of such 
        games.''; and
            (4) adding at the end thereof the following:

    ``(b) Ombudsman.--
            ``(1) The corporation shall hire and provide salary, 
        benefits, and administrative expenses for an ombudsman for 
        athletes, who shall--
                    ``(A) provide independent advice to athletes at no 
                cost about the applicable provisions of this chapter and 
                the constitution and bylaws of the corporation, national 
                governing bodies, a paralympic sports organizations, 
                international sports federations, the International 
                Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic 
                Committee, and the Pan-American Sports Organization, and 
                with respect to the resolution of any dispute involving 
                the opportunity of an amateur athlete to participate in 
                the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Pan-
                American Games, world championship competition or other 
                protected competition as defined in the constitution and 
                bylaws of the corporation;
                    ``(B) assist in mediating any such disputes; and
                    ``(C) report to the Athletes' Advisory Council on a 
                regular basis.
            ``(2)(A) The procedure for hiring the ombudsman for athletes 
        shall be as follows:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-606]]

                    ``(i) The Athletes' Advisory Council shall provide 
                the corporation's executive director with the name of 
                one qualified person to serve as ombudsman for athletes.
                    ``(ii) The corporation's executive director shall 
                immediately transmit the name of such person to the 
                corporation's executive committee.
                    ``(iii) The corporation's executive committee shall 
                hire or not hire such person after fully considering the 
                advice and counsel of the Athletes' Advisory Council.
        ``If there is a vacancy in the position of the ombudsman for 
        athletes, the nomination and hiring procedure set forth in this 
        paragraph shall be followed in a timely manner.
            ``(B) The corporation may terminate the employment of an 
        individual serving as ombudsman for athletes only if--
                    ``(i) the termination is carried out in accordance 
                with the applicable policies and procedures of the 
                corporation;
                    ``(ii) the termination is initially recommended to 
                the corporation's executive committee by either the 
                corporation's executive director or by the Athletes' 
                Advisory Council; and
                    ``(iii) the corporation's executive committee fully 
                considers the advice and counsel of the Athletes' 
                Advisory Council prior to deciding whether or not to 
                terminate the employment of such individual.''.

    (i) Agent for Service of Process.--The text of section 220510 is 
amended to read as follows: ``As a condition to the exercise of any 
power or privilege granted by this chapter, the corporation shall have a 
designated agent in the State of Colorado to receive service of process 
for the corporation. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the 
business address of the agent, is notice to or service on the 
corporation.''.
    (j) Report.--
            (1) Section 220511(a) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) Submission to President and Congress.--The corporation shall, 
on or before the first day of June, 2001, and every fourth year 
thereafter, transmit simultaneously to the President and to each House 
of Congress a detailed report of its operations for the preceding 4 
years, including--
            ``(1) a complete statement of its receipts and expenditures;
            ``(2) a comprehensive description of the activities and 
        accomplishments of the corporation during such 4-year period;
            ``(3) data concerning the participation of women, disabled 
        individuals, and racial and ethnic minorities in the amateur 
        athletic activities and administration of the corporation and 
        national governing bodies; and
            ``(4) a description of the steps taken to encourage the 
        participation of women, disabled individuals, and racial 
        minorities in amateur athletic activities.''.
            (2) The chapter analysis for chapter 2205 is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 220511 and inserting the 
        following:

``220511. Report.''.

    (k) Complete Teams.--
            (1) General.--Subchapter I of chapter 2205 is amended by 
        adding at the end thereof the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-607]]

``Sec.  220512. Complete teams

    ``In obtaining representation for the United States in each 
competition and event of the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games, and Pan-
American Games, the corporation, either directly or by delegation to the 
appropriate national governing body or paralympic sports organization, 
may select, but is not obligated to select (even if not selecting will 
result in an incomplete team for an event), athletes who have not met 
the eligibility standard of the national governing body and the 
Corporation, when the number of athletes who have met the eligibility 
standards of such entities is insufficient to fill the roster for an 
event.''.
            (2) The chapter analysis for chapter 2205 is amended by 
        inserting after the item relating to section 220511 the 
        following:

``220512. Complete teams.''.

    (l) Recognition of Amateur Sports Organizations.--Section 220521 is 
amended by--
            (1) striking the first sentence of subsection (a) and 
        inserting the following: ``For any sport which is included on 
        the program of the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, or the 
        Pan-American Games, the corporation is authorized to recognize 
        as a national governing body (in the case of a sport on the 
        program of the Olympic Games or Pan-American Games) or as a 
        paralympic sports organization (in the case of a sport on the 
        program of the Paralympic Games for which a national governing 
        body has not been designated under section 220522(b)) an amateur 
        sports organization which files an application and is eligible 
        for such recognition in accordance with the provisions of 
        subsections (a) or (b) of section 220522.'';
            (2) striking ``approved.'' in subsection (a) and inserting 
        ``approved, except as provided in section 220522(b) with respect 
        to a paralympic sports organization.'';
            (3) striking ``hold a public hearing'' in subsection (b) and 
        inserting ``hold at least 2 public hearings'';
            (4) striking ``hearing.'' each place it appears in 
        subsection (b) and inserting ``hearings.''; and
            (5) adding at the end of subsection (b) the following: ``The 
        corporation shall send written notice, which shall include a 
        copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of 
        any such public hearing to all amateur sports organizations 
        known to the corporation in that sport.''.

    (m) Eligibility Requirements.--Section 220522 is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``(a) General.--'' before ``An amateur'';
            (2) striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) agrees to submit to binding arbitration in any 
        controversy involving--
                    ``(A) its recognition as a national governing body, 
                as provided for in section 220529 of this title, upon 
                demand of the corporation; and
                    ``(B) the opportunity of any amateur athlete, coach, 
                trainer, manager, administrator or official to 
                participate in amateur athletic competition, upon demand 
                of the corporation or any aggrieved amateur athlete, 
                coach, trainer, manager, administrator or official, 
                conducted in accordance with the Commercial Rules of the 
                American Arbitration Association, as modified and 
                provided for in the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-608]]

                corporation's constitution and bylaws, except that if 
                the Athletes' Advisory Council and National Governing 
                Bodies' Council do not concur on any modifications to 
                such Rules, and if the corporation's executive committee 
                is not able to facilitate such concurrence, the 
                Commercial Rules of Arbitration shall apply unless at 
                least two-thirds of the corporation's board of directors 
                approves modifications to such Rules;'';
            (3) striking paragraph (10) and inserting the following:
            ``(10) demonstrates, based on guidelines approved by the 
        corporation, the Athletes' Advisory Council, and the National 
        Governing Bodies' Council, that its board of directors and other 
        such governing boards have established criteria and election 
        procedures for and maintain among their voting members 
        individuals who are actively engaged in amateur athletic 
        competition in the sport for which recognition is sought or who 
        have represented the United States in international amateur 
        athletic competition within the preceding 10 years, that any 
        exceptions to such guidelines by such organization
have been approved by the corporation, and that the voting power held by 
such individuals is not less than 20 percent of the voting power held in 
its board of directors and other such governing boards;'';
            (4) inserting ``or to participation in the Olympic Games, 
        the Paralympic Games, or the Pan-American Games'' after 
        ``amateur status'' in paragraph (14); and
            (5) adding at the end thereof the following:

    ``(b) Recognition of Paralympic Sports Organizations.--For any sport 
which is included on the program of the Paralympic Games, the 
corporation is authorized to designate, where feasible and when such 
designation would serve the best interest of the sport, and with the 
approval of the affected national governing body, a national governing 
body recognized under subsection (a) to govern such sport. Where such 
designation is not feasible or would not serve the best interest of the 
sport, the corporation is authorized to recognize another amateur sports 
organization as a paralympic sports organization to govern such sport, 
except that, notwithstanding the other requirements of this chapter, any 
such paralympic sports organization--
            ``(1) shall comply only with those requirements, perform 
        those duties, and have those powers that the corporation, in its 
        sole discretion, determines are appropriate to meet the objects 
        and purposes of this chapter; and
            ``(2) may, with the approval of the corporation, govern more 
        than one sport included on the program of the Paralympic 
        Games.''.

    (n) Authority of National Governing Bodies.--Section 220523 is 
amended by--
            (1) striking ``Games and'' in paragraph (6) and inserting 
        ``Games, the Paralympic Games, and''; and
            (2) striking ``Games and'' in paragraph (7) and inserting 
        ``Games, the Paralympic Games, and''.

    (o) Duties of National Governing Bodies.--Section 220524 is amended 
by--
            (1) redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as paragraphs 
        (5) through (9); and
            (2) inserting after paragraph (3) the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-609]]

            ``(4) disseminate and distribute to amateur athletes, 
        coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials in a 
        timely manner the applicable rules and any changes to such rules 
        of the national governing body, the corporation, the appropriate 
        international sports federation, the International Olympic 
        Committee, the International Paralympic Committee, and the Pan-
        American Sports Organization;''.

    (p) Replacement of National Governing Body.--Section 220528 is 
amended by--
            (1) striking ``Olympic Games or both'' in subsection 
        (c)(1)(A) and inserting ``Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games, 
        or in both'';
            (2) striking ``registered'' in subsection (c)(2) and 
        inserting ``certified'';
            (3) striking ``body.'' in subsection (c)(2) and inserting 
        ``body and with any other organization that has filed an 
        application.'';
            (4) inserting ``open to the public'' in subsection (d) after 
        ``formal hearing'' in the first sentence;
            (5) inserting after the second sentence in subsection (d) 
        the following: ``The corporation also shall send written notice, 
        including a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to 
        the date of the hearing to all amateur sports organizations 
        known to the corporation in that sport.''; and
            (6) striking ``title.'' in subsection (f)(4) and inserting 
        ``title and notify such national governing body of such 
        probation and of the actions needed to comply with such 
        requirements.''.

    (q) <<NOTE: 36 USC 220501 note.>> Special Report to Congress.--Five 
years from the date of the enactment of this Act, the United States 
Olympic Committee shall submit a special report to the Congress on the 
effectiveness of the provisions of chapter 2205 of title 36, United 
States Code, as amended by this Act, together with any additional 
proposed changes to that chapter the United States Olympic Committee 
determines are appropriate.

    Sec. 143. Section 8106(a) of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (titles I through VIII of the matter under 
section 101(b) of Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-111; 10 U.S.C. 113 
note), is amended by striking ``$3,000,000'' and inserting 
``$1,000,000''.
    Sec. 144. Section 8120 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1999, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 2332.>> is amended by striking out ``owned, 
or partially owned by'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``if the Secretary 
of Defense determines that'', and is further amended by inserting before 
the period ``owns more than a fifty per centum interest in the 
company''.

    Sec. 145. Modification of Land Conveyance Authority, Armed Forces 
Retirement Home. (a) Postponement of Sale.--Subsection (a) of section 
1053 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 
(Public Law 104-201), as amended by section 1043 of the Strom Thurmond 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999, <<NOTE: 110 
Stat. 2650.>> is further amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Notwithstanding''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(2) The sale under paragraph (1) may not occur before April 30, 
1999.''.
    (b) Deposit of Proceeds of Sale.--Subsection (b) of such section 
1053, as so amended, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-610]]

    ``(3) The payment received under paragraph (2) shall be deposited in 
the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund in accordance with section 
1519(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1991 (104 Stat. 1730; 24 U.S.C. 419(a)(2)).''.
    Sec. 146. Certification of Exports of Missile Equipment or 
Technology to China. (a) Certification.--Section 1512 of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1999 <<NOTE: 22 USC 2778 note.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The'' and inserting ``(a) Certification.--
        The''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Exception.--The certification requirement contained in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to the export of inertial reference units 
and components in manned civilian aircraft or supplied as spare or 
replacement parts for such aircraft.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2778 note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the later of--
            (1) the enactment of this Act; or
            (2) the enactment of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999.

    Sec. 147. The Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps, shall assess the requirement for Marine 
Corps warfighting and attrition reserve F/A-18 aircraft and monitor the 
viability of the existing F/A-18 production line to meet these 
requirements: Provided, That, pursuant to section 8005 of the Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, the Secretary of the Navy may 
transfer funds sufficient to ensure that the F/A-18 production 
capability remains available to meet Marine Corps F/A-18 warfighting and 
attrition reserve aircraft requirements through additional aircraft 
production.
    Sec. 148. Section 8135 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1992 (Public Law 102-172; 105 Stat. 1212; 37 U.S.C. 301b note), is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``or as a supplemental payment if the 
        officer's final military pay account is already settled''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``applies'' after ``subsection 
                (a)'';
                    (B) by striking ``January 17, 1991'' and inserting 
                ``August 2, 1990'';
                    (C) by inserting ``(regardless of the date of the 
                commencement of combatant activities in such zone as 
                specified in that Executive Order)'' after ``as a combat 
                zone''; and
                    (D) by striking ``section 302b'' and inserting 
                ``section 301b''.
      Sec. 149. (a) <<NOTE: Effective date. Termination date. 11 USC 
1201 et seq., 1201 note.>> Chapter 12 of title 11 of the United States 
Code, as in effect on September 30, 1998, is hereby reenacted for the 
period beginning on October 1, 1998, and ending on April 1, 1999.
      (b) All cases commenced or pending under chapter 12 of title 11, 
United States Code, as reenacted under subsection (a), and all matters 
and proceedings in or relating to such cases, shall be conducted and 
determined under such chapter as if such chapter were continued in 
effect after April 1, 1999. The substantive rights of parties in 
connection with such cases, matters, and proceedings shall continue to 
be governed under the laws applicable to such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-611]]

cases, matters, and proceedings as if such chapter were continued in 
effect after April 1, 1999.
      (c) This section shall take effect on October 1, 1998.

    Sec. 150. (a) Extension of Agreement for State of Mississippi.--The 
Secretary of the Interior shall offer to reinstate the Memorandum of 
Agreement between the Mississippi Department of Wildlife Conservation 
and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service concerning the framework 
closing dates for the 1979-1980 through 1981-1982 duck hunting seasons, 
executed in November 1979, for the 1998-1999 duck hunting season in the 
State of Mississippi, except that--
            (1) the duck hunting season shall end on January 31, 1999; 
        and
            (2) the total number of days for the duck hunting season in 
        the State of Mississippi shall not exceed 51 days.
      (b) Extension of Agreement to Other States.--At the request of any 
other State represented on the Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the 
Mississippi Flyway Council, the Secretary of the Interior shall extend 
the agreement described in subsection (a) to that State for the 1998-
1999 duck hunting season if the State agrees to reduce the total number 
of days of the duck hunting season in the State to the extent necessary 
to result in no net increase in the duck harvest in the State for that 
season.

SEC. 151. <<NOTE: Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998. 5 USC 3301 
            note.>> FEDERAL VACANCIES AND APPOINTMENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Federal 
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998''.
    (b) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking sections 3345 through 3349 and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 3345. Acting officer

    ``(a) If an officer of an Executive agency (including the Executive 
Office of the President, and other than the General Accounting Office) 
whose appointment to office is required to be made by the President, by 
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, dies, resigns, or is 
otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office--
            ``(1) the first assistant to the office of such officer 
        shall perform the functions and duties of the office temporarily 
        in an acting capacity subject to the time limitations of section 
        3346;
            ``(2) notwithstanding paragraph (1), the President (and only 
        the President) may direct a person who serves in an office for 
        which appointment is required to be made by the President, by 
        and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to perform the 
        functions and duties of the vacant office temporarily in an 
        acting capacity subject to the time limitations of section 3346; 
        or
            ``(3) notwithstanding paragraph (1), the President (and only 
        the President) may direct an officer or employee of such 
        Executive agency to perform the functions and duties of the 
        vacant office temporarily in an acting capacity, subject to the 
        time limitations of section 3346, if--
                    ``(A) during the 365-day period preceding the date 
                of death, resignation, or beginning of inability to 
                serve of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-612]]

                the applicable officer, the officer or employee served 
                in a position in such agency for not less than 90 days; 
                and
                    ``(B) the rate of pay for the position described 
                under subparagraph (A) is equal to or greater than the 
                minimum rate of pay payable for a position at GS-15 of 
                the General Schedule.

    ``(b)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), a person may not serve 
as an acting officer for an office under this section, if--
            ``(A) during the 365-day period preceding the date of the 
        death, resignation, or beginning of inability to serve, such 
        person--
                    ``(i) did not serve in the position of first 
                assistant to the office of such officer; or
                    ``(ii) served in the position of first assistant to 
                the office of such officer for less than 90 days; and
            ``(B) the President submits a nomination of such person to 
        the Senate for appointment to such office.

    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any person if--
            ``(A) such person is serving as the first assistant to the 
        office of an officer described under subsection (a);
            ``(B) the office of such first assistant is an office for 
        which appointment is required to be made by the President, by 
        and with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
            ``(C) the Senate has approved the appointment of such person 
        to such office.

    ``(c)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), the President (and only 
the President) may direct an officer who is nominated by the President 
for reappointment for an additional term to the same office in an 
Executive department without a break in service, to continue to serve in 
that office subject to the time limitations in section 3346, until such 
time as the Senate has acted to confirm or reject the nomination, 
notwithstanding adjournment sine die.
    ``(2) For purposes of this section and sections 3346, 3347, 3348, 
3349, 3349a, and 3349d, the expiration of a term of office is an 
inability to perform the functions and duties of such office.

``Sec. 3346. Time limitation

    ``(a) Except in the case of a vacancy caused by sickness, the person 
serving as an acting officer as described under section 3345 may serve 
in the office--
            ``(1) for no longer than 210 days beginning on the date the 
        vacancy occurs; or
            ``(2) subject to subsection (b), once a first or second 
        nomination for the office is submitted to the Senate, from the 
        date of such nomination for the period that the nomination is 
        pending in the Senate.

    ``(b)(1) If the first nomination for the office is rejected by the 
Senate, withdrawn, or returned to the President by the Senate, the 
person may continue to serve as the acting officer for no more than 210 
days after the date of such rejection, withdrawal, or return.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if a second nomination for the 
office is submitted to the Senate after the rejection, withdrawal, or 
return of the first nomination, the person serving as the acting officer 
may continue to serve--
            ``(A) until the second nomination is confirmed; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-613]]

            ``(B) for no more than 210 days after the second nomination 
        is rejected, withdrawn, or returned.

    ``(c) If a vacancy occurs during an adjournment of the Congress sine 
die, the 210-day period under subsection (a) shall begin on the date 
that the Senate first reconvenes.

``Sec. 3347. Exclusivity

    ``(a) Sections 3345 and 3346 are the exclusive means for temporarily 
authorizing an acting official to perform the functions and duties of 
any office of an Executive agency (including the Executive Office of the 
President, and other than the General Accounting Office) for which 
appointment is required to be made by the President, by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate, unless--
            ``(1) a statutory provision expressly--
                    ``(A) authorizes the President, a court, or the head 
                of an Executive department, to designate an officer or 
                employee to perform the functions and duties of a 
                specified office temporarily in an acting capacity; or
                    ``(B) designates an officer or employee to perform 
                the functions and duties of a specified office 
                temporarily in an acting capacity; or
            ``(2) the President makes an appointment to fill a vacancy 
        in such office during the recess of the Senate pursuant to 
        clause 3 of section 2 of article II of the United States 
        Constitution.

    ``(b) Any statutory provision providing general authority to the 
head of an Executive agency (including the Executive Office of the 
President, and other than the General Accounting Office) to delegate 
duties statutorily vested in that agency head to, or to reassign duties 
among, officers or employees of such Executive agency, is not a 
statutory provision to which subsection (a)(2) applies.

``Sec. 3348. Vacant office

    ``(a) In this section--
            ``(1) the term `action' includes any agency action as 
        defined under section 551(13); and
            ``(2) the term `function or duty' means any function or duty 
        of the applicable office that--
                    ``(A)(i) is established by statute; and
                    ``(ii) is required by statute to be performed by the 
                applicable officer (and only that officer); or
                    ``(B)(i)(I) is established by regulation; and
                    ``(II) is required by such regulation to be 
                performed by the applicable officer (and only that 
                officer); and
                    ``(ii) includes a function or duty to which clause 
                (i) (I) and (II) applies, and the applicable regulation 
                is in effect at any time during the 180-day period 
                preceding the date on which the vacancy occurs.

    ``(b) Unless an officer or employee is performing the functions and 
duties in accordance with sections 3345, 3346, and 3347, if an officer 
of an Executive agency (including the Executive Office of the President, 
and other than the General Accounting Office) whose appointment to 
office is required to be made by the President, by and with the advice 
and consent of the Senate, dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to 
perform the functions and duties of the office--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-614]]

            ``(1) the office shall remain vacant; and
            ``(2) in the case of an office other than the office of the 
        head of an Executive agency (including the Executive Office of 
        the President, and other than the General Accounting Office), 
        only the head of such Executive agency may perform any function 
        or duty of such office.

    ``(c) If the last day of any 210-day period under section 3346 is a 
day on which the Senate is not in session, the second day the Senate is 
next in session and receiving
nominations shall be deemed to be the last day of such period.

    ``(d)(1) An action taken by any person who is not acting under 
section 3345, 3346, or 3347, or as provided by subsection (b), in the 
performance of any function or duty of a vacant office to which this 
section and sections 3346, 3347, 3349, 3349a, 3349b, and 3349c apply 
shall have no force or effect.
    ``(2) An action that has no force or effect under paragraph (1) may 
not be ratified.
    ``(e) This section shall not apply to--
            ``(1) the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations 
        Board;
            ``(2) the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations 
        Authority;
            ``(3) any Inspector General appointed by the President, by 
        and with the advice and consent of the Senate;
            ``(4) any Chief Financial Officer appointed by the 
        President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; or
            ``(5) an office of an Executive agency (including the 
        Executive Office of the President, and other than the General 
        Accounting Office) if a statutory provision expressly prohibits 
        the head of the Executive agency from performing the functions 
        and duties of such office.

``Sec. 3349. Reporting of vacancies

    ``(a) The head of each Executive agency (including the Executive 
Office of the President, and other than the General Accounting Office) 
shall submit to the Comptroller General of the United States and to each 
House of Congress--
            ``(1) notification of a vacancy in an office to which this 
        section and sections 3345, 3346, 3347, 3348, 3349a, 3349b, 
        3349c, and 3349d apply and the date such vacancy occurred 
        immediately upon the occurrence of the vacancy;
            ``(2) the name of any person serving in an acting capacity 
        and the date such service began immediately upon the 
        designation;
            ``(3) the name of any person nominated to the Senate to fill 
        the vacancy and the date such nomination is submitted 
        immediately upon the submission of the nomination; and
            ``(4) the date of a rejection, withdrawal, or return of any 
        nomination immediately upon such rejection, withdrawal, or 
        return.

    ``(b) If the Comptroller General of the United States makes a 
determination that an officer is serving longer than the 210-day period 
including the applicable exceptions to such period under section 3346 or 
section 3349a, the Comptroller General shall report such determination 
immediately to--
            ``(1) the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-615]]

            ``(2) the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of 
        the House of Representatives;
            ``(3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
        House of Representatives;
            ``(4) the appropriate committees of jurisdiction of the 
        Senate and House of Representatives;
            ``(5) the President; and
            ``(6) the Office of Personnel Management.

``Sec. 3349a. Presidential inaugural transitions

    ``(a) In this section, the term `transitional inauguration day' 
means the date on which any person swears or affirms the oath of office 
as President, if such person is not the President on the date preceding 
the date of swearing or affirming such oath of office.
    ``(b) With respect to any vacancy that exists during the 60-day 
period beginning on a transitional inauguration day, the 210-day period 
under section 3346 or 3348 shall be deemed to begin on the later of the 
date occurring--
            ``(1) 90 days after such transitional inauguration day; or
            ``(2) 90 days after the date on which the vacancy occurs.

``Sec. 3349b. Holdover provisions

    ``Sections 3345 through 3349a shall not be construed to affect any 
statute that authorizes a person to continue to serve in any office--
            ``(1) after the expiration of the term for which such person 
        is appointed; and
            ``(2) until a successor is appointed or a specified period 
        of time has expired.

``Sec. 3349c. Exclusion of certain officers

    ``Sections 3345 through 3349b shall not apply to--
            ``(1) any member who is appointed by the President, by and 
        with the advice and consent of the Senate to any board, 
        commission, or similar entity that--
                    ``(A) is composed of multiple members; and
                    ``(B) governs an independent establishment or 
                Government corporation;
            ``(2) any commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
        Commission;
            ``(3) any member of the Surface Transportation Board; or
            ``(4) any judge appointed by the President, by and with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate, to a court constituted under 
        article I of the United States Constitution.

``Sec. 3349d. Notification of intent to nominate during certain recesses 
                        or adjournments

    ``(a) The submission to the Senate, during a recess or adjournment 
of the Senate in excess of 15 days, of a written notification by the 
President of the President's intention to submit a nomination after the 
recess or adjournment shall be considered a nomination for purposes of 
sections 3345 through 3349c if such notification contains the name of 
the proposed nominee and the office for which the person is nominated.
    ``(b) If the President does not submit a nomination of the person 
named under subsection (a) within 2 days after the end

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-616]]

of such recess or adjournment, effective after such second day the 
notification considered a nomination under subsection (a) shall be 
treated as a withdrawn nomination for purposes of sections 3345 through 
3349c.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--
            (1) Table of sections.--The table of sections for chapter 33 
        of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
         matter relating to subchapter III and inserting the following:

``3341. Details; within Executive or military departments.
``[3342. Repealed.]
``3343. Details; to international organizations.
``3344. Details; administrative law judges.
``3345. Acting officer.
``3346. Time limitation.
``3347. Exclusivity.
``3348. Vacant office.
``3349. Reporting of vacancies.
``3349a. Presidential inaugural transitions.
``3349b. Holdover provisions relating to certain independent 
           establishments.
``3349c. Exclusion of certain officers.
``3349d. Notification of intent to nominate during certain recesses or 
           adjournments.''.

            (2) Subchapter heading.--The subchapter heading for 
        subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is 
        amended to read as follows:

        ``SUBCHAPTER III--DETAILS, VACANCIES, AND APPOINTMENTS''

    (d) Effective <<NOTE: 5 USC 3345 note.>> Date and Application.--
            (1) Effective date.--Subject to paragraph (2), this section 
        and the amendments made by this section shall take effect 30 
        days after the date of enactment of this section.
            (2) Application.--
                    (A) In general.--This section shall apply to any 
                office that becomes vacant after the effective date of 
                this section.
                    (B) Immediate application of time limitation.--
                Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), for any office vacant 
                on the effective date of this section, the time 
                limitations under section 3346 of title 5, United States 
                Code (as amended by this section) shall apply to such 
                office. Such time limitations shall apply as though such 
                office first became vacant on the effective date of this 
                section.
                    (C) Certain nominations.--If the President submits 
                to the Senate the nomination of any person after the 
                effective date of this section for an office for which 
                such person had been nominated before such date, the 
                next nomination of such person after such date shall be 
                considered a first nomination of such person to that 
                office for purposes of sections 3345 through 3349 and 
                section 3349d of title 5, United States Code (as amended 
                by this section).

TITLE <<NOTE: American Fisheries Act.>> II--FISHERIES

                    Subtitle I--Fishery Endorsements

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 46 USC 2101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``American Fisheries Act''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-617]]

SEC. 202. STANDARD FOR FISHERY ENDORSEMENTS.

    (a) Standard.--Section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows--
    ``(c)(1) A vessel owned by a corporation, partnership, association, 
trust, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability 
partnership, or any other entity is not eligible for a fishery 
endorsement under section 12108 of this title unless at least 75 per 
centum of the interest in such entity, at each tier of ownership of such 
entity and in the aggregate, is owned and controlled by citizens of the 
United States.
    ``(2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The Secretary shall apply section 
2(c) of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 App. U.S.C. 802(c)) in determining 
under this subsection whether at least 75 per centum of the interest in 
a corporation, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, limited 
liability company, limited liability partnership, or any other entity is 
owned and controlled by citizens of the United States. For the purposes 
of this subsection and of applying the restrictions on controlling 
interest in section 2(c) of such Act, the terms `control' or 
`controlled'--
            ``(A) shall include--
                    ``(i) the right to direct the business of the entity 
                which owns the vessel;
                    ``(ii) the right to limit the actions of or replace 
                the chief executive officer, a majority of the board of 
                directors, any general partner, or any person serving in 
                a management capacity of the entity which owns the 
                vessel; or
                    ``(iii) the right to direct the transfer, operation 
                or manning of a vessel with a fishery endorsement; and
            ``(B) shall not include the right to simply participate in 
        the activities under subparagraph (A), or the use by a mortgagee 
        under paragraph (4) of loan covenants approved by the Secretary.

    ``(3) A fishery endorsement for a vessel that is chartered or leased 
to an individual who is not a citizen of the United States or to an 
entity that is not eligible to own a vessel with a fishery endorsement 
and used as a fishing vessel shall be invalid immediately upon such use.
    ``(4)(A) An individual or entity that is otherwise eligible to own a 
vessel with a fishery endorsement shall be ineligible by reason of an 
instrument or evidence of indebtedness, secured by a mortgage of the 
vessel to a trustee eligible to own a vessel with a fishery endorsement 
that is issued, assigned, transferred or held in trust for a person not 
eligible to own a vessel with a fishery endorsement, unless the 
Secretary determines that the issuance, assignment, transfer, or trust 
arrangement does not result in an impermissible transfer of control of 
the vessel and that the trustee--
            ``(i) is organized as a corporation, and is doing business, 
        under the laws of the United States or of a State;
            ``(ii) is authorized under those laws to exercise corporate 
        trust powers;
            ``(iii) is subject to supervision or examination by an 
        official of the United States Government or a State;
            ``(iv) has a combined capital and surplus (as stated in its 
        most recent published report of condition) of at least 
        $3,000,000; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-618]]

            ``(v) meets any other requirements prescribed by the 
        Secretary.

    ``(B) A vessel with a fishery endorsement may be operated by a 
trustee only with the approval of the Secretary.

    ``(C) A right under a mortgage of a vessel with a fishery 
endorsement may be issued, assigned, or transferred to a person not 
eligible to be a mortgagee of that vessel under section 31322(a)(4) of 
this title only with the approval of the Secretary.
    ``(D) The issuance, assignment, or transfer of an instrument or 
evidence of indebtedness contrary to this paragraph is voidable by the 
Secretary.
    ``(5) The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to a 
vessel when it is engaged in fisheries in the exclusive economic zone 
under the authority of the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council 
established under section 302(a)(1)(H) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(1)(H)) or to a purse 
seine vessel when it is engaged in tuna fishing in the Pacific Ocean 
outside the exclusive economic zone of the United States or pursuant to 
the South Pacific Regional Fisheries Treaty, provided that the owner of 
the vessel continues to comply with the eligibility requirements for a 
fishery endorsement under the federal law that was in effect on October 
1, 1998. A fishery endorsement issued by the Secretary pursuant to this 
paragraph shall be valid for engaging only in fisheries in the exclusive 
economic zone under the authority of such Council, in such tuna fishing 
in the Pacific Ocean, or pursuant to such Treaty.
    ``(6) A vessel greater than 165 feet in registered length, of more 
than 750 gross registered tons, or that has an engine or engines capable 
of producing a total of more than 3,000 shaft horsepower is not eligible 
for a fishery endorsement under section 12108 of this title unless--
            ``(A)(i) a certificate of documentation was issued for the 
        vessel and endorsed with a fishery endorsement that was 
        effective on September 25, 1997;
            ``(ii) the vessel is not placed under foreign registry after 
        the date of the enactment of the American Fisheries Act; and
            ``(iii) in the event of the invalidation of the fishery 
        endorsement after the date of the enactment of the American 
        Fisheries Act, application is made for a new fishery endorsement 
        within fifteen (15) business days of such invalidation; or
            ``(B) the owner of such vessel demonstrates to the Secretary 
        that the regional fishery management council of jurisdiction 
        established under section 302(a)(1) of the Magnuson-Stevens 
        Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(1)) 
        has recommended after the date of the enactment of the American 
        Fisheries Act, and the Secretary of Commerce has approved, 
        conservation and management measures in accordance with such Act 
        to allow such vessel to be used in fisheries under such 
        council's authority.''.

    (b) Preferred Mortgage.--Section 31322(a) of title 46, United States 
Code is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3)(B) 
        and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and ``and''; and
            (3) by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-619]]

            ``(4) with respect to a vessel with a fishery endorsement 
        that is 100 feet or greater in registered length, has as the 
        mortgagee--
                    ``(A) a person eligible to own a vessel with a 
                fishery endorsement under section 12102(c) of this 
                title;
                    ``(B) a state or federally chartered financial 
                institution that satisfies the controlling interest 
                criteria of section 2(b) of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 
                U.S.C. 802(b)); or
                    ``(C) a person that complies with the provisions of 
                section 12102(c)(4) of this title.''.

SEC. 203. ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARD.

    (a) Effective Date.--The amendments made by section 202 shall take 
effect on October 1, 2001.
    (b) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication. 46 USC 12102 
note.>> Regulations.--Final regulations to implement this subtitle shall 
be published in the Federal Register by April 1, 2000. Letter rulings 
and other interim interpretations about the effect of this subtitle and 
amendments made by this subtitle on specific vessels may not be issued 
prior to the publication of such final regulations. The regulations to 
implement this subtitle shall prohibit impermissible transfers of 
ownership or control, specify any transactions which require prior 
approval of an implementing agency, identify transactions which do not 
require prior agency approval, and to the extent practicable, minimize 
disruptions to the commercial fishing industry, to the traditional 
financing arrangements of such industry, and to the opportunity to form 
fishery cooperatives.

    (c) <<NOTE: 46 USC 12102 note.>> Vessels Measuring 100 Feet and 
Greater.--(1) The Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall 
administer section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as amended 
by this subtitle, with respect to vessels 100 feet or greater in 
registered length. The owner of each such vessel shall file a statement 
of citizenship setting forth all relevant facts regarding vessel 
ownership and control with the Administrator of the Maritime 
Administration on an annual basis to demonstrate compliance with such 
section. Regulations to implement this subsection shall conform to the 
extent practicable with the regulations establishing the form of 
citizenship affidavit set forth in part 355 of title 46, Code of Federal 
Regulations, as in effect on September 25, 1997, except that the form of 
the statement under this paragraph shall be written in a manner to allow 
the owner of each such vessel to satisfy any annual renewal requirements 
for a certificate of documentation for such vessel and to comply with 
this subsection and section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by this Act, and shall not be required to be notarized.

    (2) After October 1, 2001, transfers of ownership and control of 
vessels subject to section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by this Act, which are 100 feet or greater in registered length, 
shall be rigorously scrutinized for violations of such section, with 
particular attention given to leases, charters, mortgages, financing, 
and similar arrangements, to the control of persons not eligible to own 
a vessel with a fishery endorsement under section 12102(c) of title 46, 
United States Code, as amended by this Act, over the management, sales, 
financing, or other operations of an entity, and to contracts involving 
the purchase over extended periods of time of all, or substantially all, 
of the living marine resources harvested by a fishing vessel.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-620]]

    (d)  <<NOTE: 46 USC 12102 note.>> Vessels Measuring Less Than 100 
Feet.--The Secretary of Transportation shall establish such requirements 
as are reasonable and necessary to demonstrate compliance with section 
12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as amended by this Act, with 
respect to vessels measuring less than 100 feet in registered length, 
and shall seek to minimize the administrative burden on individuals who 
own and operate such vessels.

    (e) <<NOTE: 46 USC 12102 note.>> Endorsements Revoked.--The 
Secretary of Transportation shall revoke the fishery endorsement of any 
vessel subject to section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by this Act, whose owner does not comply with such section.

    (f) Penalty.--Section 12122 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) In addition to penalties under subsections (a) and (b), the 
owner of a documented vessel for which a fishery endorsement has been 
issued is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of 
up to $100,000 for each day in which such vessel has engaged in fishing
(as such term is defined in section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802)) within the exclusive 
economic zone of the United States, if the owner or the representative 
or agent of the owner knowingly falsified or concealed a material fact, 
or knowingly made a false statement or representation with respect to 
the eligibility of the vessel under section 12102(c) of this title in 
applying for or applying to renew such fishery endorsement.''.

    (g) Certain Vessels.--The vessels EXCELLENCE (United States official 
number 967502), GOLDEN ALASKA (United States official number 651041), 
OCEAN PHOENIX (United States official number 296779), NORTHERN TRAVELER 
(United States official number 635986), and NORTHERN VOYAGER (United 
States official number 637398) (or a replacement vessel for the NORTHERN 
VOYAGER that complies with paragraphs (2), (5), and (6) of section 
208(g) of this Act) shall be exempt from section 12102(c), as amended by 
this Act, until such time after October 1, 2001 as more than 50 percent 
of the interest owned and controlled in the vessel changes, provided 
that the vessel maintains eligibility for a fishery endorsement under 
the federal law that was in effect the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and unless, in the case of the NORTHERN TRAVELER 
or the NORTHERN VOYAGER (or such replacement), the vessel is used in any 
fishery under the authority of a regional fishery management council 
other than the New England Fishery Management Council or Mid-Atlantic 
Fishery Management Council established, respectively, under 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 302(a)(1) of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(1) (A) and 
(B)), or in the case of the EXCELLENCE, GOLDEN ALASKA, or OCEAN PHOENIX, 
the vessel is used to harvest any fish.

SEC. 204. REPEAL OF OWNERSHIP SAVINGS CLAUSE.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 7(b) of the Commercial Fishing Industry Vessel 
Anti-Reflagging Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-239; 46 U.S.C. 12102 note) 
is hereby repealed.
    (b) <<NOTE: 46 USC 12102 note.>> Effective Date.--Subsection (a) 
shall take effect on October 1, 2001.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-621]]

Subtitle II--Bering <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>> Sea Pollock Fishery

SEC. 205. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this subtitle--
            (1) the term ``Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management 
        Area'' has the same meaning as the meaning given for such term 
        in part 679.2 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, as in 
        effect on October 1, 1998;
            (2) the term ``catcher/processor'' means a vessel that is 
        used for harvesting fish and processing that fish;
            (3) the term ``catcher vessel'' means a vessel that is used 
        for harvesting fish and that does not process pollock onboard;
            (4) the term ``directed pollock fishery'' means the fishery 
        for the directed fishing allowances allocated under paragraphs 
        (1), (2), and (3) of section 206(b);
            (5) the term ``harvest'' means to commercially engage in the 
        catching, taking, or harvesting of fish or any activity that can 
        reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or 
        harvesting of fish;
            (6) the term ``inshore component'' means the following 
        categories that process groundfish harvested in the Bering Sea 
        and Aleutian Islands Management Area:
                    (A) shoreside processors, including those eligible 
                under section 208(f); and
                    (B) vessels less than 125 feet in length overall 
                that process less than 126 metric tons
per week in round-weight equivalents of an aggregate amount of pollock 
and Pacific cod;
            (7) the term ``Magnuson-Stevens Act'' means the Magnuson-
        Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 
        et seq.);
            (8) the term ``mothership'' means a vessel that receives and 
        processes fish from other vessels in the exclusive economic zone 
        of the United States and is not used for, or equipped to be used 
        for, harvesting fish;
            (9) the term ``North Pacific Council'' means the North 
        Pacific Fishery Management Council established under section 
        302(a)(1)(G) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1852(a)(1)(G));
            (10) the term ``offshore component'' means all vessels not 
        included in the definition of ``inshore component'' that process 
        groundfish harvested in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands 
        Management Area;
            (11) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Commerce; 
        and
            (12) the term ``shoreside processor'' means any person or 
        vessel that receives unprocessed fish, except catcher/
        processors, motherships, buying stations, restaurants, or 
        persons receiving fish for personal consumption or bait.

SEC. 206. ALLOCATIONS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Pollock Community Development Quota.--
Effective January 1, 1999, 10 percent of the total allowable catch of 
pollock in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area shall be 
allocated as a directed fishing allowance to the western Alaska 
community development quota program established under section 305(i) of 
the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(i)).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-622]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Inshore/Offshore.--Effective January 
1, 1999, the remainder of the pollock total allowable catch in the 
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area, after the subtraction 
of the allocation under subsection (a) and the subtraction of allowances 
for the incidental catch of pollock by vessels harvesting other 
groundfish species (including under the western Alaska community 
development quota program) shall be allocated as directed fishing 
allowances as follows--
            (1) 50 percent to catcher vessels harvesting pollock for 
        processing by the inshore component;
            (2) 40 percent to catcher/processors and catcher vessels 
        harvesting pollock for processing by catcher/processors in the 
        offshore component; and
            (3) 10 percent to catcher vessels harvesting pollock for 
        processing by motherships in the offshore component.

SEC. 207. BUYOUT.

    (a) Federal Loan.--Under the authority of sections 1111 and 1112 of 
title XI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1279f and 
1279g) and notwithstanding the requirements of section 312 of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1861a), the Secretary shall, subject to 
the availability of appropriations for the cost of the direct loan, 
provide up to $75,000,000 through a direct loan obligation for the 
payments required under subsection (d).
    (b) Inshore Fee System.--Notwithstanding the requirements of section 
304(d) or 312 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1854(d) and 1861a), 
the Secretary shall establish a fee for the repayment of such loan 
obligation which--
            (1) shall be six-tenths (0.6) of one cent for each pound 
        round-weight of all pollock harvested from the directed fishing 
        allowance under section 206(b)(1); and
            (2) shall begin with such pollock harvested on or after 
        January 1, 2000, and continue without interruption until such 
        loan obligation is fully repaid; and
            (3) shall be collected in accordance with section 
        312(d)(2)(C) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1861a(d)(2)(C)) and in accordance with such other conditions as 
        the Secretary establishes.

    (c) Federal Appropriation.--Under the authority of section 
312(c)(1)(B) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1861a(c)(1)(B)), 
there are authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for the payments 
required under subsection (d).
    (d) Payments.--Subject to the availability of appropriations for the 
cost of the direct loan under subsection (a) and funds under subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall pay by not later than December 31, 1998--
            (1) up to $90,000,000 to the owner or owners of the catcher/
        processors listed in paragraphs (1) through (9) of section 209, 
        in such manner as the owner or owners, with the concurrence of 
        the Secretary, agree, except that--
                    (A) the portion of such payment with respect to the 
                catcher/processor listed in paragraph (1) of section 209 
                shall be made only after the owner submits a written 
                certification acceptable to the Secretary that neither 
                the owner nor a purchaser from the owner intends to use 
                such catcher/processor outside of the exclusive economic

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-623]]

                zone of the United States to harvest any stock of fish 
                (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Magnuson-
                Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1802)) that occurs within the exclusive economic 
                zone of the United States; and
                    (B) the portion of such payment with respect to the 
                catcher/processors listed in paragraphs (2) through (9) 
                of section 209 shall be made only after the owner or 
                owners of such catcher/processors submit a written 
                certification acceptable to the Secretary that such 
                catcher/processors will be scrapped by December 31, 2000 
                and will not, before that date, be used to harvest or 
                process any fish; and
            (2)(A) if a contract has been filed under section 210(a) by 
        the catcher/processors listed in section 208(e), $5,000,000 to 
        the owner or owners of the catcher/processors listed in 
        paragraphs (10) through (14) of such section in such manner as 
        the owner or owners, with the concurrence of the Secretary, 
        agree; or
            (B) if such a contract has not been filed by such date, 
        $5,000,000 to the owners of the catcher vessels eligible under 
        section 208(b) and the catcher/processors eligible under 
        paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e), divided based on 
        the amount
of the harvest of pollock in the directed pollock fishery by each such 
vessel in 1997 in such manner as the Secretary deems appropriate,

except that any such payments shall be reduced by any obligation to the 
federal government that has not been satisfied by such owner or owners 
of any such vessels.
    (e) Penalty.--If the catcher/processor under paragraph (1) of 
section 209 is used outside of the exclusive economic zone of the United 
States to harvest any stock of fish that occurs within the exclusive 
economic zone of the United States while the owner who received the 
payment under subsection (d)(1)(A) has an ownership interest in such 
vessel, or if the catcher/processors listed in paragraphs (2) through 
(9) of section 209 are determined by the Secretary not to have been 
scrapped by December 31, 2000 or to have been used in a manner 
inconsistent with subsection (d)(1)(B), the Secretary may suspend any or 
all of the federal permits which allow any vessels owned in whole or in 
part by the owner or owners who received payments under subsection 
(d)(1) to harvest or process fish within the exclusive economic zone of 
the United States until such time as the obligations of such owner or 
owners under subsection (d)(1) have been fulfilled to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary.
    (f) Program Defined; Maturity.--For the purposes of section 1111 of 
the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1279f), the fishing 
capacity reduction program in this subtitle shall be within the meaning 
of the term ``program'' as defined and used in such section. 
Notwithstanding section 1111(b)(4) of such Act (46 U.S.C. App. 
1279f(b)(4)), the debt obligation under subsection (a) of this section 
may have a maturity not to exceed 30 years.
    (g) <<NOTE: Publication.>> Fishery Capacity Reduction Regulations.--
The Secretary of Commerce shall by not later than October 15, 1998 
publish proposed regulations to implement subsections (b), (c), (d), and 
(e) of section 312 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1861a) and 
sections 1111 and 1112 of title XI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 
U.S.C. App. 1279f and 1279g).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-624]]

SEC. 208. ELIGIBLE VESSELS AND PROCESSORS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Catcher Vessels Onshore.--Effective 
January 1, 2000, only catcher vessels which are--
            (1) determined by the Secretary--
                    (A) to have delivered at least 250 metric tons of 
                pollock; or
                    (B) to be less than 60 feet in length overall and to 
                have delivered at least 40 metric tons of pollock,

for processing by the inshore component in the directed pollock fishery 
in any one of the years 1996 or 1997, or between January 1, 1998 and 
September 1, 1998;
            (2) eligible to harvest pollock in the directed pollock 
        fishery under the license limitation program recommended by the 
        North Pacific Council and approved by the Secretary; and
            (3) not listed in subsection (b),

shall be eligible to harvest the directed fishing allowance under 
section 206(b)(1) pursuant to a federal fishing permit.
    (b) Catcher Vessels to Catcher/Processors.--Effective January 1, 
1999, only the following catcher vessels shall be eligible to harvest 
the directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(2) pursuant to a 
federal fishing permit:
            (1) AMERICAN CHALLENGER (United States official number 
        615085);
            (2) FORUM STAR (United States official number 925863);
            (3) MUIR MILACH (United States official number 611524);
            (4) NEAHKAHNIE (United States official number 599534);
            (5) OCEAN HARVESTER (United States official number 549892);
            (6) SEA STORM (United States official number 628959);
            (7) TRACY ANNE (United States official number 904859); and
            (8) any catcher vessel--
                    (A) determined by the Secretary to have delivered at 
                least 250 metric tons and at least 75 percent of the 
                pollock it harvested in the directed pollock fishery in 
                1997 to catcher/processors for processing by the 
                offshore component; and
                    (B) eligible to harvest pollock in the directed 
                pollock fishery under the license limitation program 
                recommended by the North Pacific Council and approved by 
                the Secretary.

    (c) Catcher Vessels to Motherships.--Effective January 1, 2000, only 
the following catcher vessels shall be eligible to harvest the directed 
fishing allowance under section 206(b)(3) pursuant to a federal fishing 
permit:
            (1) ALEUTIAN CHALLENGER (United States official number 
        603820);
            (2) ALYESKA (United States official number 560237);
            (3) AMBER DAWN (United States official number 529425);
            (4) AMERICAN BEAUTY (United States official number 613847);
            (5) CALIFORNIA HORIZON (United States official number 
        590758);
            (6) MAR-GUN (United States official number 525608);
            (7) MARGARET LYN (United States official number 615563);
            (8) MARK I (United States official number 509552);
            (9) MISTY DAWN (United States official number 926647);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-625]]

            (10) NORDIC FURY (United States official number 542651);
            (11) OCEAN LEADER (United States official number 561518);
            (12) OCEANIC (United States official number 602279);
            (13) PACIFIC ALLIANCE (United States official number 
        612084);
            (14) PACIFIC CHALLENGER (United States official number 
        518937);
            (15) PACIFIC FURY (United States official number 561934);
            (16) PAPADO II (United States official number 536161);
            (17) TRAVELER (United States official number 929356);
            (18) VESTERAALEN (United States official number 611642);
            (19) WESTERN DAWN (United States official number 524423); 
        and
            (20) any vessel--
                    (A) determined by the Secretary to have delivered at 
                least 250 metric tons of pollock for processing by 
                motherships in the offshore component of the directed 
                pollock fishery in any one of the years 1996 or 1997, or 
                between January 1, 1998 and September 1, 1998;
                    (B) eligible to harvest pollock in the directed 
                pollock fishery under the license limitation program 
                recommended by the North Pacific Council and approved by 
                the Secretary; and
                    (C) not listed in subsection (b).

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Motherships.--Effective January 1, 
2000, only the following motherships shall be eligible to process the 
directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(3) pursuant to a federal 
fishing permit:
            (1) EXCELLENCE (United States official number 967502);
            (2) GOLDEN ALASKA (United States official number 651041); 
        and
            (3) OCEAN PHOENIX (United States official number 296779).

    (e) Catcher/Processors.--Effective January 1, 1999, only the 
following catcher/processors shall be eligible to harvest the directed 
fishing allowance under section 206(b)(2) pursuant to a federal fishing 
permit:
            (1) AMERICAN DYNASTY (United States official number 951307);
            (2) KATIE ANN (United States official number 518441);
            (3) AMERICAN TRIUMPH (United States official number 646737);
            (4) NORTHERN EAGLE (United States official number 506694);
            (5) NORTHERN HAWK (United States official number 643771);
            (6) NORTHERN JAEGER (United States official number 521069);
            (7) OCEAN ROVER (United States official number 552100);
            (8) ALASKA OCEAN (United States official number 637856);
            (9) ENDURANCE (United States official number 592206);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-626]]

            (10) AMERICAN ENTERPRISE (United States official number 
        594803);
            (11) ISLAND ENTERPRISE (United States official number 
        610290);
            (12) KODIAK ENTERPRISE (United States official number 
        579450);
            (13) SEATTLE ENTERPRISE (United States official number 
        904767);
            (14) US ENTERPRISE (United States official number 921112);
            (15) ARCTIC STORM (United States official number 903511);
            (16) ARCTIC FJORD (United States official number 940866);
            (17) NORTHERN GLACIER (United States official number 
        663457);
            (18) PACIFIC GLACIER (United States official number 933627);
            (19) HIGHLAND LIGHT (United States official number 577044);
            (20) STARBOUND (United States official number 944658); and
            (21) any catcher/processor not listed in this subsection and 
        determined by the Secretary to have harvested more than 2,000 
        metric tons of the pollock in the 1997 directed pollock fishery 
        and determined to be eligible to harvest pollock in the directed 
        pollock fishery under the license limitation program recommended 
        by the North Pacific Council and approved by the Secretary, 
        except that catcher/processors eligible under this paragraph 
        shall be prohibited from harvesting in the aggregate a total of 
        more than one-half (0.5) of a percent of the pollock apportioned 
        for the directed pollock fishery under section 206(b)(2).

Notwithstanding section 213(a), failure to satisfy the requirements of 
section 4(a) of the Commercial Fishing Industry Vessel Anti-Reflagging 
Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-239; 46 U.S.C. 12108 note) shall not make a 
catcher/processor listed under this subsection ineligible for a fishery 
endorsement.

    (f) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Shoreside Processors.--(1) Effective 
January 1, 2000 and except as provided in paragraph (2), the catcher 
vessels eligible under subsection (a) may deliver pollock harvested from 
the directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(1) only to--
            (A) shoreside processors (including vessels in a single 
        geographic location in Alaska State waters) determined by the 
        Secretary to have processed more than 2,000 metric tons round-
        weight of pollock in the inshore component of the directed 
        pollock fishery during each of 1996 and 1997; and
            (B) shoreside processors determined by the Secretary to have 
        processed pollock in the inshore component of the directed 
        pollock fishery in 1996 or 1997, but to have processed less than 
        2,000 metric tons round-weight of such pollock in each year, 
        except that effective January 1, 2000, each such shoreside 
        processor may not process more than 2,000 metric tons round-
        weight from such directed fishing allowance in any year.

    (2) Upon recommendation by the North Pacific Council, the Secretary 
may approve measures to allow catcher vessels eligible under subsection 
(a) to deliver pollock harvested from the directed

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-627]]

fishing allowance under section 206(b)(1) to shoreside processors not 
eligible under paragraph (1) if the total allowable catch for pollock in 
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area increases by more 
than 10 percent above the total allowable catch in such fishery in 1997, 
or in the event of the actual total loss or constructive total loss of a 
shoreside processor eligible under paragraph (1)(A).
    (g) Replacement Vessels.--In the event of the actual total loss or 
constructive total loss of a vessel eligible under subsections (a), (b), 
(c), (d), or (e), the owner of such vessel may replace such vessel with 
a vessel which shall be eligible in the same manner under that 
subsection as the eligible vessel, provided that--
            (1) such loss was caused by an act of God, an act of war, a 
        collision, an act or omission of a party other than the owner or 
        agent of the vessel, or any other event not caused by the 
        willful misconduct of the owner or agent;
            (2) the replacement vessel was built in the United States 
        and if ever rebuilt, was rebuilt in the United States;
            (3) the fishery endorsement for the replacement vessel is 
        issued within 36 months of the end of the last year in which the 
        eligible vessel harvested or processed pollock in the directed 
        pollock fishery;
            (4) if the eligible vessel is greater than 165 feet in 
        registered length, of more than 750 gross registered tons, or 
        has engines capable of producing more than 3,000 shaft 
        horsepower, the replacement vessel is of the same or lesser 
        registered length, gross registered tons, and shaft horsepower;
            (5) if the eligible vessel is less than 165 feet in 
        registered length, of fewer than 750 gross registered tons, and 
        has engines incapable of producing less than 3,000 shaft 
        horsepower, the replacement vessel is less than each of such 
        thresholds and does not exceed by more than 10 percent the 
        registered length, gross registered tons or shaft horsepower of 
        the eligible vessel; and
            (6) the replacement vessel otherwise qualifies under federal 
        law for a fishery endorsement, including under section 12102(c) 
        of title 46, United States Code, as amended by this Act.

    (h) Eligibility During Implementation.--In the event the Secretary 
is unable to make a final determination about the eligibility of a 
vessel under subsection (b)(8) or subsection (e)(21) before January 1, 
1999, or a vessel or shoreside processor under subsection (a), 
subsection (c)(21), or subsection (f) before January 1, 2000, such 
vessel or shoreside processor, upon the filing of an
application for eligibility, shall be eligible to participate in the 
directed pollock fishery pending final determination by the Secretary 
with respect to such vessel or shoreside processor.

    (i) Eligibility Not a Right.--Eligibility under this section shall 
not be construed--
            (1) to confer any right of compensation, monetary or 
        otherwise, to the owner of any catcher vessel, catcher/
        processor, mothership, or shoreside processor if such 
        eligibility is revoked or limited in any way, including through 
        the revocation or limitation of a fishery endorsement or any 
        federal permit or license;
            (2) to create any right, title, or interest in or to any 
        fish in any fishery; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-628]]

            (3) to waive any provision of law otherwise applicable to 
        such catcher vessel, catcher/processor, mothership, or shoreside 
        processor.

SEC. 209. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> LIST OF INELIGIBLE VESSELS.

    Effective December 31, 1998, the following vessels shall be 
permanently ineligible for fishery endorsements, and any claims 
(including relating to catch history) associated with such vessels that 
could qualify any owners of such vessels for any present or future 
limited access system permit in any fishery within the exclusive 
economic zone of the United States (including a vessel moratorium permit 
or license limitation program permit in fisheries under the authority of 
the North Pacific Council) are hereby extinguished:
            (1) AMERICAN EMPRESS (United States official number 942347);
            (2) PACIFIC SCOUT (United States official number 934772);
            (3) PACIFIC EXPLORER (United States official number 942592);
            (4) PACIFIC NAVIGATOR (United States official number 
        592204);
            (5) VICTORIA ANN (United States official number 592207);
            (6) ELIZABETH ANN (United States official number 534721);
            (7) CHRISTINA ANN (United States official number 653045);
            (8) REBECCA ANN (United States official number 592205); and
            (9) BROWNS POINT (United States official number 587440).

SEC. 210. FISHERY COOPERATIVE LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Public Notice.--(1) Any contract implementing a fishery 
cooperative under section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 (15 U.S.C. 521) 
in the directed pollock fishery and any material modifications to any 
such contract shall be filed not less than 30 days prior to the start of 
fishing under the contract with the North Pacific Council and with the 
Secretary, together with a copy of a letter from a party to the contract 
requesting a business review letter on the fishery cooperative from the 
Department of Justice and any response to such request. Notwithstanding 
section 402 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a) or any other 
provision of law, but taking into account the interest of parties to any 
such contract in protecting the confidentiality of proprietary 
information, the North Pacific Council and Secretary shall--
            (A) make available to the public such information about the 
        contract, contract modifications, or fishery cooperative the 
        North Pacific Council and Secretary deem appropriate, which at a 
        minimum shall include a list of the parties to the contract, a 
        list of the vessels involved, and the amount of pollock and 
        other fish to be harvested by each party to such contract; and
            (B) make available to the public in such manner as the North 
        Pacific Council and Secretary deem appropriate information about 
        the harvest by vessels under a fishery cooperative of all 
        species (including
bycatch) in the directed pollock fishery on a vessel-by-vessel basis.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-629]]

    (b) Catcher Vessels Onshore.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Catcher vessel cooperatives.--
        Effective January 1, 2000, upon the filing of a contract 
        implementing a fishery cooperative under subsection (a) which--
                    (A) is signed by the owners of 80 percent or more of 
                the qualified catcher vessels that delivered pollock for 
                processing by a shoreside processor in the directed 
                pollock fishery in the year prior to the year in which 
                the fishery cooperative will be in effect; and
                    (B) specifies, except as provided in paragraph (6), 
                that such catcher vessels will deliver pollock in the 
                directed pollock fishery only to such shoreside 
                processor during the year in which the fishery 
                cooperative will be in effect and that such shoreside 
                processor has agreed to process such pollock,

the Secretary shall allow only such catcher vessels (and catcher vessels 
whose owners voluntarily participate pursuant to paragraph (2)) to 
harvest the aggregate percentage of the directed fishing allowance under 
section 206(b)(1) in the year in which the fishery cooperative will be 
in effect that is equivalent to the aggregate total amount of pollock 
harvested by such catcher vessels (and by such catcher vessels whose 
owners voluntarily participate pursuant to paragraph (2)) in the 
directed pollock fishery for processing by the inshore component during 
1995, 1996, and 1997 relative to the aggregate total amount of pollock 
harvested in the directed pollock fishery for processing by the inshore 
component during such years and shall prevent such catcher vessels (and 
catcher vessels whose owners voluntarily participate pursuant to 
paragraph (2)) from harvesting in aggregate in excess of such percentage 
of such directed fishing allowance.
            (2) Voluntary participation.--Any contract implementing a 
        fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) must allow the owners of 
        other qualified catcher vessels to enter into such contract 
        after it is filed and before the calender year in which fishing 
        will begin under the same terms and conditions as the owners of 
        the qualified catcher vessels who entered into such contract 
        upon filing.
            (3) Qualified catcher vessel.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, a catcher vessel shall be considered a ``qualified 
        catcher vessel'' if, during the year prior to the year in which 
        the fishery cooperative will be in effect, it delivered more 
        pollock to the shoreside processor to which it will deliver 
        pollock under the fishery cooperative in paragraph (1) than to 
        any other shoreside processor.
            (4) Consideration of certain vessels.--Any contract 
        implementing a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) which has 
        been entered into by the owner of a qualified catcher vessel 
        eligible under section 208(a) that harvested pollock for 
        processing by catcher/processors or motherships in the directed 
        pollock fishery during 1995, 1996, and 1997 shall, to the extent 
        practicable, provide fair and equitable terms and conditions for 
        the owner of such qualified catcher vessel.
            (5) Open access.--A catcher vessel eligible under section 
        208(a) the catch history of which has not been attributed to a 
        fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) may be used to deliver 
        pollock harvested by such vessel from the directed fishing 
        allowance under section 206(b)(1) (other than pollock

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-630]]

        reserved under paragraph (1) for a fishery cooperative) to any 
        of the shoreside processors eligible under section 208(f). A 
        catcher vessel eligible under section 208(a) the catch history 
        of which has been attributed to a fishery cooperative under 
        paragraph (1) during any calendar year may not harvest any 
        pollock apportioned under section 206(b)(1) in such calendar 
        year other than the pollock reserved under paragraph (1) for 
        such fishery cooperative.
            (6) Transfer of cooperative harvest.--A contract 
        implementing a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) may, 
        notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection, provide 
        for up to 10 percent of the pollock harvested under such 
        cooperative to be processed by a shoreside processor eligible 
        under section 208(f) other than the shoreside processor to which 
        pollock will be delivered under paragraph (1).

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Catcher Vessels to Catcher/
Processors.--Effective January 1, 1999, not less than 8.5 percent of the 
directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(2) shall be available 
for harvest only by the catcher vessels eligible under section 208(b). 
The owners of such catcher vessels may participate in a fishery 
cooperative with the owners of the catcher/processors eligible under 
paragraphs (1) through (20) of the section 208(e). The owners of such 
catcher vessels may participate in a fishery cooperative that will be in 
effect during 1999 only if the contract implementing such cooperative 
establishes penalties to prevent such vessels from exceeding in 1999 the 
traditional levels harvested by such vessels in all other fisheries in 
the exclusive economic zone of the United States.

    (d) Catcher Vessels to Motherships.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Processing.--Effective January 
        1, 2000, the authority in section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 
        (48 Stat. 1213 and 1214; 15 U.S.C. 521 et seq.) shall extend to 
        processing by motherships eligible under section 208(d) solely 
        for the purposes of forming or participating in a fishery 
        cooperative in the directed pollock fishery upon the filing of a 
        contract to implement a fishery cooperative under subsection (a) 
        which has been entered into by the owners of 80 percent or more 
        of the catcher vessels eligible under section 208(c) for the 
        duration of such contract, provided that such owners agree to 
        the terms of the fishery cooperative involving processing by the 
        motherships.
            (2) Voluntary participation.--Any contract implementing a 
        fishery cooperative described in paragraph (1) must allow the 
        owners of any other catcher vessels eligible under section 
        208(c) to enter such contract after it is filed and before the 
        calendar year in which fishing will begin under the same terms 
        and conditions as the owners of the catcher vessels who entered 
        into such contract upon filing.

    (e) Excessive Shares.--
            (1) Harvesting.--No particular individual, corporation, or 
        other entity may harvest, through a fishery cooperative or 
        otherwise, a total of more than 17.5 percent of the pollock 
        available to be harvested in the directed pollock fishery.
            (2) Processing.--Under the authority of section 301(a)(4) of 
        the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1851(a)(4)), the North 
        Pacific Council is directed to recommend for approval by the 
        Secretary conservation and management measures to prevent any 
        particular individual or entity from processing an excessive

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-631]]

        share of the pollock available to be harvested in the directed 
        pollock fishery. In the event the North Pacific Council 
        recommends and the Secretary approves an excessive processing 
        share that is lower than 17.5 percent, any individual or entity 
        that previously processed a percentage greater than such share 
        shall be allowed to continue to process such percentage, except 
        that their percentage may not exceed 17.5 percent (excluding 
        pollock processed by catcher/processors that was harvested in 
        the directed pollock fishery by catcher vessels eligible under 
        208(b)) and shall be reduced if their percentage decreases, 
        until their percentage is below such share. In recommending the 
        excessive processing share, the North Pacific Council shall 
        consider the need of catcher vessels in the directed pollock 
        fishery to have competitive buyers for the pollock harvested by 
        such vessels.
            (3) Review by maritime administration.--At the request of 
        the North Pacific Council or the Secretary, any individual or 
        entity believed by such Council or the Secretary to have 
        exceeded the percentage in either paragraph (1) or (2) shall 
        submit such information to the Administrator of the Maritime 
        Administration as the Administrator deems appropriate to allow 
        the Administrator to determine whether such individual or entity 
        has exceeded either such percentage. The Administrator shall 
        make a finding as soon as practicable upon such request and 
        shall submit such finding to the North Pacific Council and the 
        Secretary. For the purposes of this subsection, any entity in 
        which 10 percent or more of the interest is owned or controlled 
        by another individual or entity shall be considered to be the 
        same entity as the other individual or entity.

    (f) Landing Tax Jurisdiction.--Any contract filed under subsection 
(a) shall include a contract clause under which the parties to the 
contract agree to make payments to the State of Alaska for any pollock 
harvested in the
directed pollock fishery which is not landed in the State of Alaska, in 
amounts which would otherwise accrue had the pollock been landed in the 
State of Alaska subject to any landing taxes established under Alaska 
law. Failure to include such a contract clause or for such amounts to be 
paid shall result in a revocation of the authority to form fishery 
cooperatives under section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 (15 U.S.C. 521 
et seq.).

    (g) Penalties.--The violation of any of the requirements of this 
section or section 211 shall be considered the commission of an act 
prohibited by section 307 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1857). 
In addition to the civil penalties and permit sanctions applicable to 
prohibited acts under section 308 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1858), any 
person who is found by the Secretary, after notice and an opportunity 
for a hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States 
Code, to have violated a requirement of this section shall be subject to 
the forfeiture to the Secretary of Commerce of any fish harvested or 
processed during the commission of such act.

SEC. 211. PROTECTIONS FOR OTHER FISHERIES; CONSERVATION MEASURES.

    (a) General.--The North Pacific Council shall recommend for approval 
by the Secretary such conservation and management

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-632]]

measures as it determines necessary to protect other fisheries under its 
jurisdiction and the participants in those fisheries, including 
processors, from adverse impacts caused by this Act or fishery 
cooperatives in the directed pollock fishery.
    (b) Catcher/Processor Restrictions.--
            (1) General.--The <<NOTE: Effective date.>> restrictions in 
        this subsection shall take effect on January 1, 1999 and shall 
        remain in effect thereafter except that they may be superceded 
        (with the exception of paragraph (4)) by conservation and 
        management measures recommended after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act by the North Pacific Council and approved by the 
        Secretary in accordance with the Magnuson-Stevens Act.
            (2) Bering sea fishing.--The catcher/processors eligible 
        under paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e) are hereby 
        prohibited from, in the aggregate--
                    (A) exceeding the percentage of the harvest 
                available in the offshore component of any Bering Sea 
                and Aleutian Islands groundfish fishery (other than the 
                pollock fishery) that is equivalent to the total harvest 
                by such catcher/processors and the catcher/processors 
                listed in section 209 in the fishery in 1995, 1996, and 
                1997 relative to the total amount available to be 
                harvested by the offshore component in the fishery in 
                1995, 1996, and 1997;
                    (B) exceeding the percentage of the prohibited 
                species available in the offshore component of any 
                Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands groundfish fishery 
                (other than the pollock fishery) that is equivalent to 
                the total of the prohibited species harvested by such 
                catcher/processors and the catcher/processors listed in 
                section 209 in the fishery in 1995, 1996, and 1997 
                relative to the total amount of prohibited species 
                available to be harvested by the offshore component in 
                the fishery in 1995, 1996, and 1997; and
                    (C) fishing for Atka mackerel in the eastern area of 
                the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands and from exceeding 
                the following percentages of the directed harvest 
                available in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Atka 
                mackerel fishery--
                          (i) 11.5 percent in the central area; and
                          (ii) 20 percent in the western area.
            (3) Bering sea processing.--The catcher/processors eligible 
        under paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e) are hereby 
        prohibited from--
                    (A) processing any of the directed fishing 
                allowances under paragraphs (1) or (3) of section 
                206(b); and
                    (B) processing any species of crab harvested in the 
                Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area.
            (4) Gulf of alaska.--The catcher/processors eligible under 
        paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e) are hereby 
        prohibited from--
                    (A) harvesting any fish in the Gulf of Alaska;
                    (B) processing any groundfish harvested from the 
                portion of the exclusive economic zone off Alaska known 
                as area 630 under the fishery management plan for Gulf 
                of Alaska groundfish; or
                    (C) processing any pollock in the Gulf of Alaska 
                (other than as bycatch in non-pollock groundfish 
                fisheries) or processing, in the aggregate, a total of 
                more than 10 percent

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-633]]

                of the cod harvested from areas 610, 620, and 640 of the 
                Gulf of Alaska under the fishery management plan for 
                Gulf of Alaska groundfish.
            (5) Fisheries other than north pacific.--The catcher/
        processors eligible under paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 
        208(e) and motherships eligible under section 208(d) are hereby 
        prohibited from harvesting fish in any fishery under the 
        authority of any regional fishery management council established 
        under section 302(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1852(a)) other than the North Pacific Council, except for the 
        Pacific whiting fishery, and from processing fish in any fishery 
        under the authority of any such regional fishery management 
        council other than the North Pacific Council, except in the 
        Pacific whiting fishery, unless the catcher/processor or 
        mothership is authorized to harvest or process fish under a 
        fishery management plan recommended by the regional fishery 
        management council of jurisdiction and approved by the 
        Secretary.
            (6) Observers and scales.--The catcher/processors eligible 
        under paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e) shall--
                    (A) have two observers onboard at all times while 
                groundfish is being harvested, processed, or received 
                from another vessel in any fishery under the authority 
                of the North Pacific Council; and
                    (B) weigh its catch on a scale onboard approved by 
                the National Marine Fisheries Service while harvesting 
                groundfish in fisheries under the authority of the North 
                Pacific Council.
        This <<NOTE: Effective dates.>> paragraph shall take effect on 
        January 1, 1999 for catcher/processors eligible under paragraphs 
        (1) through (20) of section 208(e) that will harvest pollock 
        allocated under section 206(a) in 1999, and shall take effect on 
        January 1, 2000 for all other catcher/processors eligible under 
        such paragraphs of section 208(e).

    (c) Catcher Vessel and Shoreside Processor Restrictions.--
            (1) Required council recommendations.--By not later than 
        July 1, 1999, the North Pacific Council shall recommend for 
        approval by the Secretary conservation and management measures 
        to--
                    (A) prevent the catcher vessels eligible under 
                subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 208 from 
                exceeding in the aggregate the traditional harvest 
                levels of such vessels in other fisheries under the 
                authority of the North Pacific Council as a result of 
                fishery cooperatives in the directed pollock fishery; 
                and
                    (B) protect processors not eligible to participate 
                in the directed pollock fishery from adverse effects as 
                a result of this Act or fishery cooperatives in the 
                directed pollock fishery.
        If the North Pacific Council does not recommend such 
        conservation and management measures by such date, or if the 
        Secretary determines that such conservation and management 
        measures recommended by the North Pacific Council are not 
        adequate to fulfill the purposes of this paragraph, the 
        Secretary may by regulation restrict or change the authority in 
        section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-634]]

        210(b) to the extent the Secretary deems appropriate, including 
        by preventing fishery cooperatives from being formed pursuant to 
        such section and by providing greater flexibility with respect 
        to the shoreside processor or shoreside processors to which 
        catcher vessels in a fishery cooperative under section 210(b) 
        may deliver pollock.
            (2) Bering sea crab and groundfish.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective January 1, 
                2000, the owners of the motherships eligible under 
                section 208(d) and the shoreside processors eligible 
                under section 208(f) that receive pollock from the 
                directed pollock fishery under a fishery cooperative are 
                hereby prohibited from processing, in the aggregate for 
                each calendar year, more than the percentage of the 
                total catch of each species of crab in directed 
                fisheries under the jurisdiction of the North Pacific 
                Council than facilities operated by such owners 
                processed of each such species in the aggregate, on 
                average, in 1995, 1996, 1997. For the purposes of this 
                subparagraph, the term ``facilities'' means any 
                processing plant, catcher/processor, mothership, 
                floating processor, or any other operation that 
                processes fish. Any entity in which 10 percent or more 
                of the interest is owned or controlled by another 
                individual or entity shall be considered to be the same 
                entity as the other individual or entity for the 
                purposes of this subparagraph.
                    (B) Under the authority of section 301(a)(4) of the 
                Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1851(a)(4)), the North 
                Pacific Council is directed to recommend for approval by 
                the Secretary conservation and management measures to 
                prevent any particular individual or entity from 
                harvesting or processing an excessive share of crab or 
                of groundfish in fisheries in the Bering Sea and 
                Aleutian Islands Management Area.
                    (C) The catcher vessels eligible under section 
                208(b) are hereby prohibited from participating in a 
                directed fishery for any species of crab in the Bering 
                Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area unless the 
                catcher vessel harvested crab in the directed fishery 
                for that species of crab in such Area during 1997 and is 
                eligible to harvest such crab in such directed fishery 
                under the license limitation program recommended by the 
                North Pacific Council and approved by the Secretary. The 
                North Pacific Council is directed to recommend measures 
                for approval by the Secretary to eliminate latent 
                licenses under such program, and nothing in this 
                subparagraph shall preclude the Council from 
                recommending measures more restrictive than under this 
                paragraph.
            (3) Fisheries other than north pacific.--
                    (A) By not later than July 1, 2000, the Pacific 
                Fishery Management Council established under section 
                302(a)(1)(F) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1852(a)(1)(F)) shall recommend for approval by the 
                Secretary conservation and management measures to 
                protect fisheries under its jurisdiction and the 
                participants in those fisheries from adverse impacts 
                caused by this Act or by any fishery cooperatives in the 
                directed pollock fishery.
                    (B) If the Pacific Council does not recommend such 
                conservation and management measures by such date, or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-635]]

                if the Secretary determines that such conservation and 
                management measures recommended by the Pacific Council 
                are not adequate to fulfill the purposes of this 
                paragraph, the Secretary may by regulation implement 
                adequate measures including, but not limited to, 
                restrictions on vessels which harvest pollock under a 
                fishery cooperative which will prevent such vessels from 
                harvesting Pacific groundfish, and restrictions on the 
                number of processors eligible to process Pacific 
                groundfish.

    (d) Bycatch Information.--Notwithstanding section 402 of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a), the North Pacific Council may 
recommend and the Secretary may approve, under such terms and conditions 
as the North Pacific Council and Secretary deem appropriate, the public 
disclosure of any information from the groundfish fisheries under the 
authority of such Council that would be beneficial in the implementation 
of section 301(a)(9) or section 303(a)(11) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1851(a)(9) and 1853(a)(11)).
    (e) Community Development Loan Program.--Under the authority of 
title XI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1271 et seq.), 
and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary is 
authorized to provide direct loan obligations to communities eligible to 
participate in the western Alaska community development quota program 
established under 304(i) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(i)) 
for the purposes of purchasing all or part of an ownership interest in 
vessels and shoreside processors eligible under subsections (a), (b), 
(c), (d), (e), or (f) of section 208. Notwithstanding the eligibility 
criteria in section 208(a) and section 208(c), the LISA MARIE (United 
States official number 1038717) shall be eligible under such sections in 
the same manner as other vessels eligible under such sections.

SEC. 212. <<NOTE: 46 USC app. 1274 note.>> RESTRICTION ON FEDERAL LOANS.

    Section 302(b) of the Fisheries Financing Act (46 U.S.C. 1274 note) 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Until October 1, 2001''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) No loans may be provided or guaranteed by the Federal 
        Government for the construction or rebuilding of a vessel 
        intended for use as a fishing vessel (as defined in section 2101 
        of title 46, United States Code), if such vessel will be greater 
        than 165 feet in registered length, of more than 750 gross 
        registered tons, or have an engine or engines capable of 
        producing a total of more than 3,000 shaft horsepower, after 
        such construction or rebuilding is completed. This prohibition 
        shall not apply to vessels to be used in the menhaden fishery or 
        in tuna purse seine fisheries outside the exclusive economic 
        zone of the United States or the area of the South Pacific 
        Regional Fisheries Treaty.''.

SEC. 213. DURATION.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> General.--Except as otherwise provided 
in this title, the provisions of this title shall take effect upon the 
date of the enactment of this Act. Sections 206, 208, and 210 shall 
remain in <<NOTE: Termination date.>> effect until December 31, 2004, 
and shall be repealed on such date, except that the North Pacific 
Council may recommend and the Secretary may approve conservation and 
management measures

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-636]]

as part of a fishery management plan under the Magnuson-Stevens Act to 
give effect to the measures in such sections thereafter.

    (b) Existing Authority.--Except for the measures required by this 
subtitle, nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to limit the 
authority of the North Pacific Council or the Secretary under the 
Magnuson-Stevens Act.
    (c) Changes to Fishery Cooperative Limitations and Pollock CDQ 
Allocation.--The North Pacific Council may recommend and the Secretary 
may approve conservation and management measures in accordance with the 
Magnuson-Stevens Act--
            (1) that supersede the provisions of this title, except for 
        sections 206 and 208, for conservation purposes or to mitigate 
        adverse effects in fisheries or on owners of fewer than three 
        vessels in the directed pollock fishery caused by this title or 
        fishery cooperatives in the directed pollock fishery, provided 
        such measures take into account all factors affecting the 
        fisheries and are imposed fairly and equitably to the extent 
        practicable among and within the sectors in the directed pollock 
        fishery;
            (2) that supersede the allocation in section 206(a) for any 
        of the years 2002, 2003, and 2004, upon the finding by such 
        Council that the western Alaska community development quota 
        program for pollock has been adversely affected by the 
        amendments in this title; or
            (3) that supersede the criteria required in paragraph (1) of 
        section 210(b) to be used by the Secretary to set the percentage 
        allowed to be harvested by catcher vessels pursuant to a fishery 
        cooperative under such paragraph.

    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than October 1, 2000, the North 
Pacific Council shall submit a report to the Secretary and to Congress 
on the implementation and effects of this Act, including the effects on 
fishery conservation and management, on bycatch levels, on fishing 
communities, on business and employment practices of participants in any 
fishery cooperatives, on the western Alaska community development quota 
program, on any fisheries outside of the authority of the North Pacific 
Council, and such other matters as the North Pacific Council deems 
appropriate.
    (e) Report on Fillet Production.--Not later than June 1, 2000, the 
General Accounting Office shall submit a report to the North Pacific 
Council, the Secretary, and the Congress on whether this Act has 
negatively affected the market for fillets and fillet blocks, including 
through the reduction in the supply of such fillets and fillet blocks. 
If the report determines that such market has been negatively affected, 
the North Pacific Council
shall recommend measures for the Secretary's approval to mitigate any 
negative effects.

    (f) Severability.--If any provision of this title, an amendment made 
by this title, or the application of such provision or amendment to any 
person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of 
this title, the amendments made by this title, and the application of 
the provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be 
affected thereby.
    (g) International Agreements.--In the event that any provision of 
section 12102(c) or section 31322(a) of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by this Act, is determined to be inconsistent with an existing 
international agreement relating to foreign investment to which the 
United States is a party with respect

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-637]]

to the owner or mortgagee on October 1, 2001 of a vessel with a fishery 
endorsement, such provision shall not apply to that owner or mortgagee 
with respect to such vessel to the extent of any such inconsistency. The 
provisions of section 12102(c) and section 31322(a) of title 46, United 
States Code, as amended by this Act, shall apply to all subsequent 
owners and mortgagees of such vessel, and shall apply, notwithstanding 
the preceding sentence, to the owner on October 1, 2001 of such vessel 
if any ownership interest in that owner is transferred to or otherwise 
acquired by a foreign individual or entity after such date.

  TITLE III--DENALI <<NOTE: Denali Commission Act of 1998. 42 USC 3121 
note.>> COMMISSION

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Denali Commission Act of 1998''.

SEC. 302. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are as follows:
            (1) To deliver the services of the Federal Government in the 
        most cost-effective manner practicable by reducing 
        administrative and overhead costs.
            (2) To provide job training and other economic development 
        services in rural communities particularly distressed 
        communities (many of which have a rate of unemployment that 
        exceeds 50 percent).
            (3) To promote rural development, provide power generation 
        and transmission facilities, modern communication systems, water 
        and sewer systems and other infrastructure needs.

SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be known as 
the Denali Commission (referred to in this title as the ``Commission'').
    (b) <<NOTE: Alaska.>> Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 7 
        members, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce 
        (referred to in this title as the ``Secretary''), of whom--
                    (A) one shall be the Governor of the State of 
                Alaska, or an individual selected from nominations 
                submitted by the Governor, who shall serve as the State 
                Cochairperson;
                    (B) one shall be the President of the University of 
                Alaska, or an individual selected from nominations 
                submitted by the President of the University of Alaska;
                    (C) one shall be the President of the Alaska 
                Municipal League or an individual selected from 
                nominations submitted by the President of the Alaska 
                Municipal League;
                    (D) one shall be the President of the Alaska 
                Federation or Natives or an individual selected from 
                nominations submitted by the President of the Alaska 
                Federation or Natives;
                    (E) one shall be the Executive President of the 
                Alaska State AFL-CIO or an individual selected from 
                nominations submitted by the Executive President;
                    (F) one shall be the President of the Associated 
                General Contractors of Alaska or an individual selected 
                from nominations submitted
by the President of the Associated General Contractors of Alaska; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-638]]

                    (G) one shall be the Federal Cochairperson, who 
                shall be selected in accordance with the requirements of 
                paragraph (2).
            (2) Federal cochairperson.--
                    (A) In general.--The President pro temporare of the 
                Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
                shall each submit a list of nominations for the position 
                of the Federal Cochairperson under paragraph (1)(G), 
                including pertinent biographical information, to the 
                Secretary.
                    (B) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint the 
                Federal Cochairperson from among the list of nominations 
                submitted under subparagraph (A). The Federal 
                Cochairperson shall serve as an employee of the 
                Department of Commerce, and may be removed by the 
                Secretary for cause.
                    (C) Federal cochairperson vote.--The Federal 
                Cochairperson appointed under this paragraph shall break 
                any tie in the voting of the Commission.
            (4) Date.--The appointments of the members of the Commission 
        shall be made no later than January 1, 1999.

    (c) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.--Members shall be appointed 
for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the 
original appointment.
    (d) Meetings.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall meet at the call of 
        the Federal Cochairperson not less frequently than 2 times each 
        year, and may, as appropriate, conduct business by telephone or 
        other electronic means.
            (2) Notification.--Not later than 2 weeks before calling a 
        meeting under this subsection, the Federal Cochairperson shall--
                    (A) notify each member of the Commission of the 
                time, date and location of that meeting; and
                    (B) provide each member of the Commission with a 
                written agenda for the meeting, including any proposals 
                for discussion and consideration, and any appropriate 
                background materials.

    (e) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

SEC. 304. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Work Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Commission 
        shall develop a proposed work plan for Alaska that meets the 
        requirements of paragraph (2) and submit that plan to the 
        Federal Cochairperson for review in accordance with the 
        requirements of subsection (b).
            (2) Work plan.--In developing the work plan, the Commission 
        shall--
                    (A) solicit project proposals from local governments 
                and other entities and organizations; and
                    (B) provide for a comprehensive work plan for rural 
                and infrastructure development and necessary job 
                training in the area covered under the work plan.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-639]]

            (3) Report.--Upon completion of a work plan under this 
        subsection, the Commission shall prepare, and submit to the 
        Secretary, the Federal Cochairperson, and the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget, a report that outlines the work 
        plan and contains recommendations for funding priorities.

    (b) Review by Federal Cochairperson.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> In general.--
        Upon receiving a work plan under this section, the Secretary, 
        acting through the Federal Cochairperson, shall publish the work 
        plan in the Federal Register, with notice and an opportunity for 
        public comment. The period for public review and comment shall 
        be the 30-day period beginning on the date of publication of 
        that notice.
            (2) Criteria for review.--In conducting a review under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Federal 
        Cochairperson, shall--
                    (A) take into consideration the information, views, 
                and comments received from interested parties through 
                the public review and comment process specified in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) consult with appropriate Federal officials in 
                Alaska including but not limited to Bureau of Indian 
                Affairs, Economic Development Administration, and Rural 
                Development Administration.
            (3) Approval.--Not later than 30 days after the end of the 
        period specified in paragraph (1), the Secretary acting through 
        the Federal Cochairperson, shall--
                    (A) approve, disapprove, or partially approve the 
                work plan that is the subject of the review; and
                    (B) issue to the Commission a notice of the 
                approval, disapproval, or partial approval that--
                          (i) specifies the reasons for disapproving any 
                      portion of the work plan; and
                          (ii) if applicable, includes recommendations 
                      for revisions to the work plan to make the plan 
                      subject to approval.
            (4) Review of disapproval or partial approval.--If the 
        Secretary, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, disapproves 
        or partially approves a work plan, the Federal Cochairperson 
        shall submit that work plan to the Commission for review and 
        revision.

SEC. 305. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Information From Federal Agencies.--The Commission may secure 
directly from any Federal department or agency such information as it 
considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. Upon 
request of the Federal Cochairperson of the Commission, the head of such 
department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission. 
Agencies must provide the Commission with the requested information in a 
timely manner. Agencies are not required to provide the Commission any 
information that is exempt from disclosure by the Freedom of Information 
Act. Agenices may, upon request by the Commission, make services and 
personnel available to the Commission to carry out the duties of the 
Commission. To the maximum extent practicable, the Commission shall 
contract for completion of necesssary work utilizing local firms and 
labor to minimize costs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-640]]

    (b) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments 
and agencies of the Federal Government.
    (c) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or 
donations of services or property.

SEC. 306. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.

    (a) Compensation of Members.--Each member of the Commission who is 
not an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall be 
compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate 
of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including 
travel time) during the time such member is engaged in the performance 
of the duties of the Commission. All members of the Commission who are 
officers or employees of the United States shall serve without 
compensation that is in addition to that received for their services as 
officers or employees of the United States.
    (b) Travel Expenses.--The members of the Commission shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates 
authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular 
places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.
    (c) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal Cochairperson of the Commission 
        may, without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, 
        appoint such personnel as may be necessary to enable the 
        Commission to perform its duties.
            (2) Compensation.--The Chairman of the Commission may fix 
        the compensation of personnel without regard to the provisions 
        of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
        United States Code, relating to classification of positions and 
        General Schedule pay rates.

    (d) Detail of Government Employees.--Any Federal Government employee 
may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and such detail 
shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or 
privilege.
    (e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.--The Federal 
Cochairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United
States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the daily 
equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.

    (f) Offices.--The principal office of the Commission shall be 
located in Alaska, at a location that the Commission shall select.

SEC. 307. SPECIAL FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Rural Utilities.--In carrying out its functions under this 
title, the Commission shall as appropriate, provide assistance, seek to 
avoid duplicating services and assistance, and complement the water and 
sewer wastewater programs under section 306D of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926d) and section 303 of the Safe 
Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 (33 U.S.C. 1263a).
    (b) Bulk Fuels.--The Commission, in consultation with the Commandant 
of the Coast Guard, shall develop a plan to provide

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-641]]

for the repair or replacement of bulk fuel storage tanks in Alaska that 
are not in compliance with applicable--
            (1) Federal law, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
        (104 Stat. 484); or
            (2) State law.

SEC. 308. EXEMPTION FROM FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.

    The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the 
Commission.

SEC. 309. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Commission to carry out the duties of the Commission consistent with the 
purposes of this title and pursuant to the work plan approved under 
section 4 under this Act, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and such 
sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003
    (b) Availability.--Any sums appropriated under the authorization 
contained in this section shall remain available until expended.

TITLE <<NOTE: American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 
1998.>> IV--AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS AND WORKFORCE IMPROVEMENT ACT

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS; AMENDMENTS TO IMMIGRATION AND 
            NATIONALITY ACT.

    (a) Short <<NOTE: 8 USC 1101 note.>> Title.--This title may be cited 
as the ``American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 
1998''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this title is as 
follows:

Sec. 401. Short title; table of contents; amendments to Immigration and 
           Nationality Act.

          Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to H-1B Nonimmigrants

Sec. 411. Temporary increase in access to temporary skilled personnel 
           under H-1B program.
Sec. 412. Protection against displacement of United States workers in 
           case of H-1B-dependent employers.
Sec. 413. Changes in enforcement and penalties.
Sec. 414. Collection and use of H-1B nonimmigrant fees for scholarships 
           for low-income math, engineering, and computer science 
           students and job training of United States workers.
Sec. 415. Computation of prevailing wage level.
Sec. 416. Improving count of H-1B and H-2B nonimmigrants.
Sec. 417. Report on older workers in the information technology field.
Sec. 418. Report on high technology labor market needs; reports on 
           economic impact of increase in H-1B nonimmigrants.

Subtitle B--Special Immigrant Status for Certain NATO Civilian Employees

Sec. 421. Special immigrant status for certain NATO civilian employees.

                   Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provision

Sec. 431. Academic honoraria.

    (c) Amendments to Immigration and Nationality Act.--Except as 
otherwise specifically provided in this title, whenever in this title an 
amendment is expressed in terms of an amendment to a section or other 
provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to that section 
or other provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 
et seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-642]]

          Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to H-1B Nonimmigrants

SEC. 411. TEMPORARY INCREASE IN ACCESS TO TEMPORARY SKILLED PERSONNEL 
            UNDER H-1B PROGRAM.

    (a) Temporary Increase in Skilled Nonimmigrant Workers.--Paragraph 
(1)(A) of section 214(g) (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(A) under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b), may not exceed--
                    ``(i) 65,000 in each fiscal year before fiscal year 
                1999;
                    ``(ii) 115,000 in fiscal year 1999;
                    ``(iii) 115,000 in fiscal year 2000;
                    ``(iv) 107,500 in fiscal year 2001; and
                    ``(v) 65,000 in each succeeding fiscal year; or''.

     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1184 note.>> (b) Effective Dates.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) applies beginning with fiscal year 1999.

SEC. 412. PROTECTION AGAINST DISPLACEMENT OF UNITED STATES WORKERS IN 
            CASE OF H-1B-DEPENDENT EMPLOYERS.

    (a) Protection Against Layoff and Requirement for Prior Recruitment 
of United States Workers.--
            (1) Additional statements on application.--Section 212(n)(1) 
        (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended by inserting after subparagraph 
        (D) the following:
            ``(E)(i) In the case of an application described in clause 
        (ii), the employer did not displace and will not displace a 
        United States worker (as defined in paragraph (4)) employed by 
        the employer within the period beginning 90 days before and 
        ending 90 days after the date of filing of any visa petition 
        supported by the application.
            ``(ii) An application described in this clause is an 
        application filed on or after the date final regulations are 
        first promulgated to carry out this subparagraph, and before 
        October 1, 2001, by an H-1B-dependent employer (as defined in 
        paragraph (3)) or by an employer that has been found, on or 
        after the date of the enactment of the American Competitiveness 
        and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998, under paragraph (2)(C) or 
        (5) to have committed a willful failure or misrepresentation 
        during the 5-year period preceding the filing of the 
        application. An application is not described in this clause if 
        the only H-1B nonimmigrants sought in the application are exempt 
        H-1B nonimmigrants.
            ``(F) In the case of an application described in 
        subparagraph (E)(ii), the employer will not place the 
        nonimmigrant with another employer (regardless of whether or not 
        such other employer is an H-1B-dependent employer) where--
                    ``(i) the nonimmigrant performs duties in whole or 
                in part at one or more worksites owned, operated, or 
                controlled by such other employer; and
                    ``(ii) there are indicia of an employment 
                relationship between the nonimmigrant and such other 
                employer;
        unless the employer has inquired of the other employer as to 
        whether, and has no knowledge that, within the period beginning 
        90 days before and ending 90 days after the date of the 
        placement of the nonimmigrant with the other employer, the other 
        employer has displaced or intends to displace a United States 
        worker employed by the other employer.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-643]]

            ``(G)(i) In the case of an application described in 
        subparagraph (E)(ii), subject to clause (ii), the employer, 
        prior to filing the application--
                    ``(I) has taken good faith steps to recruit, in the 
                United States using procedures that meet industry-wide 
                standards and offering compensation that is at least as 
                great as that required to be offered to H-1B 
                nonimmigrants under subparagraph (A), United States 
                workers for the job for which the nonimmigrant or 
                nonimmigrants is or are sought; and
                    ``(II) has offered the job to any United States 
                worker who applies and is equally or better qualified 
                for the job for which the nonimmigrant or nonimmigrants 
                is or are sought.
            ``(ii) The conditions described in clause (i) shall not 
        apply to an application filed with respect to the employment of 
        an H-1B nonimmigrant who is described in subparagraph (A), (B), 
        or (C) of section 203(b)(1).''.
            (2) Notice on application of potential liability of placing 
        employers.--Section 212(n)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following: ``The application form shall 
        include a clear statement explaining the liability under 
        subparagraph (F) of a placing employer if the other employer 
        described in such subparagraph displaces a United States worker 
        as described in such subparagraph.''.
            (3) Construction.--Section 212(n)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) 
        is further amended by adding at the end the following: ``Nothing 
        in subparagraph (G) shall be construed to prohibit an employer 
        from using legitimate selection criteria relevant to the job 
        that are normal or customary to the type of job involved, so 
        long as such criteria are not applied in a discriminatory 
        manner.''.

    (b) H-1B-Dependent Employer and Other Definitions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 212(n) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(3)(A) For purposes of this subsection, the term `H-1B-dependent 
employer' means an employer that--
            ``(i)(I) has 25 or fewer full-time equivalent employees who 
        are employed in the United States; and (II) employs more than 7 
        H-1B nonimmigrants;
            ``(ii)(I) has at least 26 but not more than 50 full-time 
        equivalent employees who are employed in the United States; and 
        (II) employs more than 12 H-1B nonimmigrants; or
            ``(iii)(I) has at least 51 full-time equivalent employees 
        who are employed in the United States; and (II) employs H-1B 
        nonimmigrants in a number that is equal to at least 15 percent 
        of the number of such full-time equivalent employees.

    ``(B) For purposes of this subsection--
            ``(i) the term `exempt H-1B nonimmigrant' means an H-1B 
        nonimmigrant who--
                    ``(I) receives wages (including cash bonuses and 
                similar compensation) at an annual rate equal to at 
                least $60,000; or
                    ``(II) has attained a master's or higher degree (or 
                its equivalent) in a specialty related to the intended 
                employment; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-644]]

            ``(ii) the term `nonexempt H-1B nonimmigrant' means an H-1B 
        nonimmigrant who is not an exempt H-1B nonimmigrant.

    ``(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A)--
            ``(i) in computing the number of full-time equivalent 
        employees and the number of H-1B nonimmigrants, exempt H-1B 
        nonimmigrants shall not be taken into account during the longer 
        of--
                    ``(I) the 6-month period beginning on the date of 
                the enactment of the American Competitiveness and 
                Workforce Improvement Act of 1998; or
                    ``(II) the period beginning on the date of the 
                enactment of the American Competitiveness and Workforce 
                Improvement Act of 1998 and ending on the date final 
                regulations are issued to carry out this paragraph; and
            ``(ii) any group treated as a single employer under 
        subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 shall be treated as a single employer.

    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `area of employment' means the area within 
        normal commuting distance of the worksite or physical location 
        where the work of the H-1B nonimmigrant is or will be performed. 
        If such worksite or location is within a Metropolitan 
        Statistical Area, any place within such area is deemed to be 
        within the area of employment.
            ``(B) In the case of an application with respect to one or 
        more H-1B nonimmigrants by an employer, the employer is 
        considered to `displace' a United States worker from a job if 
        the employer lays off the worker from a job that is essentially 
        the equivalent of the job for which the nonimmigrant or 
        nonimmigrants is or are sought. A job shall not be considered to 
        be essentially equivalent of another job unless it involves 
        essentially the same responsibilities, was held by a United 
        States worker with substantially equivalent qualifications and 
        experience, and is located in the same area of employment as the 
        other job.
            ``(C) The term `H-1B nonimmigrant' means an alien admitted 
        or provided status as a nonimmigrant described in section 
        101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b).
            ``(D)(i) The term `lays off', with respect to a worker--
                    ``(I) means to cause the worker's loss of 
                employment, other than through a discharge for 
                inadequate performance, violation of workplace rules, 
                cause, voluntary departure, voluntary retirement, or the 
                expiration of a grant or contract (other than a 
                temporary employment contract entered into in order to 
                evade a condition described in subparagraph (E) or (F) 
                of paragraph (1)); but
                    ``(II) does not include any situation in which the 
                worker is offered, as an alternative to such loss of 
                employment, a similar employment opportunity with the 
                same employer (or, in the case of a placement of a 
                worker with another employer under paragraph (1)(F), 
                with either employer described in such paragraph) at 
                equivalent or higher compensation and benefits than the 
                position from which the employee was discharged, 
                regardless of whether or not the employee accepts the 
                offer.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-645]]

            ``(ii) Nothing in this subparagraph is intended to limit an 
        employee's rights under a collective bargaining agreement or 
        other employment contract.
            ``(E) The term `United States worker' means an employee 
        who--
                    ``(i) is a citizen or national of the United States; 
                or
                    ``(ii) is an alien who is lawfully admitted for 
                permanent residence, is admitted as a refugee under 
                section 207, is granted asylum under section 208, or is 
                an immigrant otherwise authorized, by this Act or by the 
                Attorney General, to be employed.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 212(n)(1) (8 U.S.C. 
        1182(n)(1)) is amended by striking ``a nonimmigrant described in 
        section
101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b)'' each place it appears and inserting ``an H-1B 
nonimmigrant''.

    (c) Improved Posting of Notice of Application.--Section 
212(n)(1)(C)(ii) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(ii) if there is no such bargaining 
                representative, has provided notice of filing in the 
                occupational classification through such methods as 
                physical posting in conspicuous locations at the place 
                of employment or electronic notification to employees in 
                the occupational classification for which H-1B 
                nonimmigrants are sought.''.

     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (d) Effective Dates.--The amendments 
made by subsection (a) apply to applications filed under section 
212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act on or after the date 
final regulations are issued to carry out such amendments, and the 
amendments made by subsections (b) and (c) take effect on the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (e) Reduction of Period for Public 
Comment.--In first promulgating regulations to implement the amendments 
made by this section in a timely manner, the Secretary of Labor and the 
Attorney General may reduce to not less than 30 days the period of 
public comment on proposed regulations.

SEC. 413. CHANGES IN ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.

    (a) Increased Enforcement and Penalties.--Section 212(n)(2)(C) (8 
U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(C)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(C)(i) If the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, a failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(B), (1)(E), or 
(1)(F), a substantial failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(C), 
(1)(D), or (1)(G)(i)(I), or a misrepresentation of material fact in an 
application--
            ``(I) <<NOTE: Notification.>> the Secretary shall notify the 
        Attorney General of such finding and may, in addition, impose 
        such other administrative remedies (including civil monetary 
        penalties in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation) as 
        the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
            ``(II) the Attorney General shall not approve petitions 
        filed with respect to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) 
        during a period of at least 1 year for aliens to be employed by 
        the employer.

    ``(ii) If the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, a willful failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1), a 
willful misrepresentation of material fact in an application, or a 
violation of clause (iv)--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-646]]

            ``(I) the <<NOTE: Notification.>> Secretary shall notify the 
        Attorney General of such finding and may, in addition, impose 
        such other administrative remedies (including civil monetary 
        penalties in an amount not to exceed $5,000 per violation) as 
        the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
            ``(II) the Attorney General shall not approve petitions 
        filed with respect to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) 
        during a period of at least 2 years for aliens to be employed by 
        the employer.

    ``(iii) If the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, a willful failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1) or a 
willful misrepresentation of material fact in an application, in the 
course of which failure or misrepresentation the employer displaced a 
United States worker employed by the employer within the period 
beginning 90 days before and ending 90 days after the date of filing of 
any visa petition supported by the application--
            ``(I) <<NOTE: Notification.>> the Secretary shall notify the 
        Attorney General of such finding and may, in addition, impose 
        such other administrative remedies (including civil monetary 
        penalties in an amount not to exceed
$35,000 per violation) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; 
and
            ``(II) the Attorney General shall not approve petitions 
        filed with respect to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) 
        during a period of at least 3 years for aliens to be employed by 
        the employer.

    ``(iv) It is a violation of this clause for an employer who has 
filed an application under this subsection to intimidate, threaten, 
restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any other manner 
discriminate against an employee (which term, for purposes of this 
clause, includes a former employee and an applicant for employment) 
because the employee has disclosed information to the employer, or to 
any other person, that the employee reasonably believes evidences a 
violation of this subsection, or any rule or regulation pertaining to 
this subsection, or because the employee cooperates or seeks to 
cooperate in an investigation or other proceeding concerning the 
employer's compliance with the requirements of this subsection or any 
rule or regulation pertaining to this subsection.
    ``(v) The Secretary of Labor and the Attorney General shall devise a 
process under which an H-1B nonimmigrant who files a complaint regarding 
a violation of clause (iv) and is otherwise eligible to remain and work 
in the United States may be allowed to seek other appropriate employment 
in the United States for a period not to exceed the maximum period of 
stay authorized for such nonimmigrant classification.
    ``(vi)(I) It is a violation of this clause for an employer who has 
filed an application under this subsection to require an H-1B 
nonimmigrant to pay a penalty for ceasing employment with the employer 
prior to a date agreed to by the nonimmigrant and the employer. The 
Secretary shall determine whether a required payment is a penalty (and 
not liquidated damages) pursuant to relevant State law.
    ``(II) It is a violation of this clause for an employer who has 
filed an application under this subsection to require an alien who is 
the subject of a petition filed under section 214(c)(1), for which a fee 
is imposed under section 214(c)(9), to reimburse, or otherwise 
compensate, the employer for part or all of the cost of such fee.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-647]]

It is a violation of this clause for such an employer otherwise to 
accept such reimbursement or compensation from such an alien.
    ``(III) If the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, that an employer has committed a violation of this clause, the 
Secretary may impose a civil monetary penalty of $1,000 for each such 
violation and issue an administrative order requiring the return to the 
nonimmigrant of any amount paid in violation of this clause, or, if the 
nonimmigrant cannot be located, requiring payment of any such amount to 
the general fund of the Treasury.
    ``(vii)(I) It is a failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(A) 
for an employer, who has filed an application under this subsection and 
who places an H-1B nonimmigrant designated as a full-time employee on 
the petition filed under section 214(c)(1) by the employer with respect 
to the nonimmigrant, after the nonimmigrant has entered into employment 
with the employer, in nonproductive status due to a decision by the 
employer (based on factors such as lack of work), or due to the 
nonimmigrant's lack of a permit or license, to fail to pay the 
nonimmigrant full-time wages in accordance with paragraph (1)(A) for all 
such nonproductive time.
    ``(II) It is a failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(A) for 
an employer, who has filed an application under this subsection and who 
places an H-1B nonimmigrant designated as a part-time employee on the 
petition filed under section 214(c)(1) by the employer with respect to 
the nonimmigrant, after the nonimmigrant has entered into employment 
with the employer, in nonproductive status under circumstances described 
in subclause (I), to fail to pay such a nonimmigrant for such hours as 
are designated on such petition consistent with the rate of pay 
identified on such petition.
    ``(III) In the case of an H-1B nonimmigrant who has not yet entered 
into employment with an employer who has had approved an application 
under this subsection, and a petition under section 214(c)(1), with 
respect to the nonimmigrant, the provisions of subclauses (I) and (II) 
shall apply to the employer beginning 30 days after the date the 
nonimmigrant first is admitted into the United States pursuant to the 
petition, or 60 days after the date the nonimmigrant becomes eligible to 
work for the employer (in the case of a nonimmigrant who is present in 
the United States on the date of the approval of the petition).
    ``(IV) This clause does not apply to a failure to pay wages to an H-
1B nonimmigrant for nonproductive time due to non-work-related factors, 
such as the voluntary request of the nonimmigrant for an absence or 
circumstances rendering the nonimmigrant unable to work.
    ``(V) This clause shall not be construed as prohibiting an employer 
that is a school or other educational institution from applying to an H-
1B nonimmigrant an established salary practice of the employer, under 
which the employer pays to H-1B nonimmigrants and United States
 workers in the same occupational classification an annual salary in 
disbursements over fewer than 12 months, if--
            ``(aa) the nonimmigrant agrees to the compressed annual 
        salary payments prior to the commencement of the employment; and
            ``(bb) the application of the salary practice to the 
        nonimmigrant does not otherwise cause the nonimmigrant to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-648]]

        violate any condition of the nonimmigrant's authorization under 
        this Act to remain in the United States.

    ``(VI) This clause shall not be construed as superseding clause 
(viii).
    ``(viii) It is a failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(A) for 
an employer who has filed an application under this subsection to fail 
to offer to an H-1B nonimmigrant, during the nonimmigrant's period of 
authorized employment, benefits and eligibility for benefits (including 
the opportunity to participate in health, life, disability, and other 
insurance plans; the opportunity to participate in retirement and 
savings plans; and cash bonuses and noncash compensation, such as stock 
options (whether or not based on performance)) on the same basis, and in 
accordance with the same criteria, as the employer offers to United 
States workers.''.
    (b) Use of Arbitration Process for Disputes Involving Qualifications 
of United States Workers Not Hired.--
            (1) In general.--Section 212(n) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)), as 
        amended by section 412(b), is further amended by adding at the 
        end the following:

    ``(5)(A) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This paragraph shall apply instead 
of subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (2) in the case of a 
violation described in subparagraph (B), but shall not be construed to 
limit or affect the authority of the Secretary or the Attorney General 
with respect to any other violation.

    ``(B) <<NOTE: Establishment.>> The Attorney General shall establish 
a process for the receipt, initial review, and disposition in accordance 
with this paragraph of complaints respecting an employer's failure to 
meet the condition of paragraph (1)(G)(i)(II) or a petitioner's 
misrepresentation of material facts with respect to such condition. 
Complaints may be filed by an aggrieved individual who has submitted a 
resume or otherwise applied in a reasonable manner for the job that is 
the subject of the condition. No proceeding shall be conducted under 
this paragraph on a complaint concerning such a failure or 
misrepresentation unless the Attorney General determines that the 
complaint was filed not later than 12 months after the date of the 
failure or misrepresentation, respectively.

    ``(C) If the Attorney General finds that a complaint has been filed 
in accordance with subparagraph (B) and there is reasonable cause to 
believe that such a failure or misrepresentation described in such 
complaint has occurred, the Attorney General shall initiate binding 
arbitration proceedings by requesting the Federal Mediation and 
Conciliation Service to appoint an arbitrator from the roster of 
arbitrators maintained by such Service. The procedure and rules of such 
Service shall be applicable to the selection of such arbitrator and to 
such arbitration proceedings. The Attorney General shall pay the fee and 
expenses of the arbitrator.
    ``(D)(i) The arbitrator shall make findings respecting whether a 
failure or misrepresentation described in subparagraph (B) occurred. If 
the arbitrator concludes that failure or misrepresentation was willful, 
the arbitrator shall make a finding to that effect. The arbitrator may 
not find such a failure or misrepresentation (or that such a failure or 
misrepresentation was willful) unless the complainant demonstrates such 
a failure or misrepresentation (or its willful character) by clear and 
convincing evidence. The arbitrator shall transmit the findings in the 
form of a written opinion to the parties to the arbitration and the
Attorney General. Such findings shall be final and conclusive, and, 
except as provided

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-649]]

in this subparagraph, no official or court of the United States shall 
have power or jurisdiction to review any such findings.

    ``(ii) The Attorney General may review and reverse or modify the 
findings of an arbitrator only on the same bases as an award of an 
arbitrator may be vacated or modified under section 10 or 11 of title 9, 
United States Code.
    ``(iii) With respect to the findings of an arbitrator, a court may 
review only the actions of the Attorney General under clause (ii) and 
may set aside such actions only on the grounds described in subparagraph 
(A), (B), or (C) of section 706(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such judicial review may 
only be brought in an appropriate United States court of appeals.
    ``(E) If the Attorney General receives a finding of an arbitrator 
under this paragraph that an employer has failed to meet the condition 
of paragraph (1)(G)(i)(II) or has misrepresented a material fact with 
respect to such condition, unless the Attorney General reverses or 
modifies the finding under subparagraph (D)(ii)--
            ``(i) the Attorney General may impose administrative 
        remedies (including civil monetary penalties in an amount not to 
        exceed $1,000 per violation or $5,000 per violation in the case 
        of a willful failure or misrepresentation) as the Attorney 
        General determines to be appropriate; and
            ``(ii) the Attorney General is authorized to not approve 
        petitions filed, with respect to that employer and for aliens to 
        be employed by the employer, under section 204 or 214(c)--
                    ``(I) during a period of not more than 1 year; or
                    ``(II) in the case of a willful failure or willful 
                misrepresentation, during a period of not more than 2 
                years.

    ``(F) The Attorney General shall not delegate, to any other employee 
or official of the Department of Justice, any function of the Attorney 
General under this paragraph, until 60 days after the Attorney General 
has submitted a plan for such delegation to the Committees on the 
Judiciary of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Senate.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The first sentence of section 
        212(n)(2)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
        ``The Secretary'' and inserting ``Subject to paragraph (5)(A), 
        the Secretary''.

    (c) Liability of Petitioning Employer in Case of Placement of H-1B 
Nonimmigrant With Another Employer.--Section 212(n)(2) (8 U.S.C. 
1182(n)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(E) If an H-1B-dependent employer places a nonexempt H-1B 
nonimmigrant with another employer as provided under paragraph (1)(F) 
and the other employer has displaced or displaces a United States worker 
employed by such other employer during the period described in such 
paragraph, such displacement shall be considered for purposes of this 
paragraph a failure, by the placing employer, to meet a condition 
specified in an application submitted under paragraph (1); except that 
the Attorney General may impose a sanction described in subclause (II) 
of subparagraph (C)(i), (C)(ii), or (C)(iii) only if the Secretary of 
Labor found that such placing employer--
            ``(i) knew or had reason to know of such displacement at the 
        time of the placement of the nonimmigrant with the other 
        employer; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-650]]

            ``(ii) has been subject to a sanction under this 
        subparagraph based upon a previous placement of an H-1B 
        nonimmigrant with the same other employer.''.

    (d) Spot Investigations During Probationary Period.--Section 
212(n)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)), as amended by subsection (c), is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(F) The Secretary may, on a case-by-case basis, subject an 
employer to random investigations for a period of up to 5 years, 
beginning on the date (on or after the date of the enactment of the 
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998) on which 
the employer is found by the Secretary to have committed a willful 
failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1) (or has been found under 
paragraph (5) to have committed a willful failure to meet the condition 
of paragraph (1)(G)(i)(II)) or to have made a willful misrepresentation 
of material fact in an application. The preceding sentence shall apply 
to an employer regardless of whether or not the employer is an H-1B-
dependent employer. The authority of the Secretary under this 
subparagraph shall not be construed to be subject to, or limited by, the 
requirements of subparagraph (A).''.
    (e) Additional Investigative Authority.--
             (1) In general.--Section 212(n)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)), 
        as amended by subsection (d), is further amended by adding at 
        the end the following:

    ``(G)(i) If the Secretary receives specific credible information 
from a source, who is likely to have knowledge of an employer's 
practices or employment conditions, or an employer's compliance with the 
employer's labor condition application under paragraph (1), and whose 
identity is known to the Secretary, and such information provides 
reasonable cause to believe that the employer has committed a willful 
failure to meet a condition of paragraph (1)(A), (1)(B), (1)(E), (1)(F), 
or (1)(G)(i)(I), has engaged in a pattern or practice of failures to 
meet such a condition, or has committed a substantial failure to meet 
such a condition that affects multiple employees, the Secretary may 
conduct a 30-day investigation into the alleged failure or 
failures. <<NOTE: Certification.>> The Secretary (or the Acting 
Secretary in the case of the Secretary's absence or disability) shall 
personally certify that the requirements for conducting such an 
investigation have been met and shall approve commencement of the 
investigation. The Secretary may withhold the identity of the source 
from the employer, and the source's identity shall not be subject to 
disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code.

    ``(ii) The Secretary shall establish a procedure for any person, 
desiring to provide to the Secretary information described in clause (i) 
that may be used, in whole or in part, as the basis for commencement of 
an investigation described in such clause, to provide the information in 
writing on a form developed and provided by the Secretary and completed 
by or on behalf of the person. The person may not be an officer or 
employee of the Department of Labor, unless the information satisfies 
the requirement of clause (iii)(II) (although an officer or employee of 
the Department of Labor may complete the form on behalf of the person).
    ``(iii) Any investigation initiated or approved by the Secretary 
under clause (i) shall be based on information that satisfies the 
requirements of such clause and that (I) originates from a source other 
than an officer or employee of the Department of Labor,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-651]]

or (II) was lawfully obtained by the Secretary of Labor in the course of 
lawfully conducting another Department of Labor investigation under this 
Act or any other Act.
    ``(iv) The receipt by the Secretary of information submitted by an 
employer to the Attorney General or the Secretary for purposes of 
securing the employment of an H-1B nonimmigrant shall not be considered 
a receipt of information for purposes of clause (i).
    ``(v) No investigation described in clause (i) (or hearing described 
in clause (vii)) may be conducted with respect to information about a 
failure to meet a condition described in clause (i), unless the 
Secretary receives the
information not later than 12 months after the date of the alleged 
failure.

    ``(vi) <<NOTE: Notice.>> The Secretary shall provide notice to an 
employer with respect to whom the Secretary has received information 
described in clause (i), prior to the commencement of an investigation 
under such clause, of the receipt of the information and of the 
potential for an investigation. The notice shall be provided in such a 
manner, and shall contain sufficient detail, to permit the employer to 
respond to the allegations before an investigation is commenced. The 
Secretary is not required to comply with this clause if the Secretary 
determines that to do so would interfere with an effort by the Secretary 
to secure compliance by the employer with the requirements of this 
subsection. There shall be no judicial review of a determination by the 
Secretary under this clause.

    ``(vii) <<NOTE: Notice.>> If the Secretary determines under this 
subparagraph that a reasonable basis exists to make a finding that a 
failure described in clause (i) has occurred, the Secretary shall 
provide for notice of such determination to the interested parties and 
an opportunity for a hearing, in accordance with section 556 of title 5, 
United States Code, within 60 days after the date of the determination. 
If such a hearing is requested, the Secretary shall make a finding 
concerning the matter by not later than 60 days after the date of the 
hearing.''.
             <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (2) Sunset.--The amendment made 
        by paragraph (1) shall cease to be effective on September 30, 
        2001.

    (f) Construction.--Section 212(n)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)), as 
amended by subsection (e), is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(H) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as superseding 
or preempting any other enforcement-related authority under this Act 
(such as the authorities under section 274B), or any other Act.''.

SEC. 414. COLLECTION AND USE OF H-1B NONIMMIGRANT FEES FOR SCHOLARSHIPS 
            FOR LOW-INCOME MATH, ENGINEERING, AND COMPUTER SCIENCE 
            STUDENTS AND JOB TRAINING OF UNITED STATES WORKERS.

    (a) Imposition of Fee.--Section 214(c) (8 U.S.C. 1184(c)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(9)(A) The Attorney General shall impose a fee on an employer 
(excluding an employer described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 
212(p)(1)) filing (on or after December 1, 1998, and before October 1, 
2001) a petition under paragraph (1)--
            ``(i) initially to grant an alien nonimmigrant status 
        described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-652]]

            ``(ii) to extend the stay of an alien having such status 
        (unless the employer previously has obtained an extension for 
        such alien); or
            ``(iii) to obtain authorization for an alien having such 
        status to change employers.

    ``(B) The amount of the fee shall be $500 for each such petition.
    ``(C) Fees collected under this paragraph shall be deposited in the 
Treasury in accordance with section 286(s).''.
    (b) Establishment of Account; Use of Fees.--Section 286 (8 U.S.C. 
1356) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(s) H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established in the general fund 
        of the Treasury a separate account, which shall be known as the 
        `H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account'. Notwithstanding any 
        other section of this title, there shall be deposited as 
        offsetting receipts into the account all fees collected under 
        section 214(c)(9).
            ``(2) Use of fees for job training.--56.3 percent of amounts 
        deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account shall 
        remain available to the Secretary of Labor until expended for 
        demonstration programs and projects described in section 414(c) 
        of the American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 
        1998.
            ``(3) Use of fees for low-income scholarship program.--28.2 
        percent of the amounts deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant 
        Petitioner Account shall remain available to the Director of the 
        National Science Foundation until expended for scholarships 
        described in section 414(d) of the American Competitiveness and 
        Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 for low-income students 
        enrolled in a program of study leading to a degree in 
        mathematics, engineering, or computer science.
            ``(4) Additional nsf uses.--
                    ``(A) Grants for mathematics, engineering, or 
                science enrichment courses.--4 percent of the amounts 
                deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account 
                shall remain available to the Director of the National 
                Science Foundation until expended to make merit-reviewed 
                grants, under section 3(a)(1) of the National Science 
                Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1862(a)(1)), for 
                programs that provide opportunities for enrollment in 
                year-round academic enrichment courses in mathematics, 
                engineering, or science.
                    ``(B) Systemic reform activities.--4 percent of the 
                amounts deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner 
                Account shall remain available to the Director of the 
                National Science Foundation until expended to carry out 
                systemic reform activities administered by the National 
                Science Foundation under section 3(a)(1) of the National 
                Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1862(a)(1)).
            ``(5) Use of fees for duties relating to petitions.--1.5 
        percent of the amounts deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant 
        Petitioner Account shall remain available to the Attorney 
        General until expended to carry out duties under paragraphs (1) 
        and (9) of section 214(c) related to petitions made for 
        nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b), to 
        decrease the processing time for such petitions, and to carry

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-653]]

        out duties under section 416 of the American Competitiveness and 
        Workforce Improvement Act of 1998. Such amounts shall be 
        available in addition to any other fees authorized to be 
        collected by the Attorney General with respect to such 
        petitions.
            ``(6) Use of fees for application processing and 
        enforcement.--For fiscal year 1999, 6 percent of the amounts 
        deposited into the H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account shall 
        remain available to the Secretary of Labor until expended for 
        decreasing the processing time for applications under section 
        212(n)(1) and for carrying out section 212(n)(2). Beginning with 
        fiscal year 2000, 3 percent of the amounts deposited into the H-
        1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Account shall remain available to the 
        Secretary of Labor until expended for decreasing the processing 
        time for applications under section 212(n)(1), and 3 percent of 
        such amounts shall remain available to such Secretary until 
        expended for carrying out section 212(n)(2). Notwithstanding the 
        preceding sentence, both of the amounts made available for any 
        fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 2000) pursuant to the 
        preceding sentence shall be available to such Secretary, and 
        shall remain available until expended, only for decreasing the 
        processing time for applications under section 212(n)(1) until 
        the Secretary submits
to the Congress a report containing a certification that, during the 
most recently concluded calendar year, the Secretary substantially 
complied with the requirement in section 212(n)(1) relating to the 
provision of the certification described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) 
within a 7-day period.''.

     <<NOTE: 29 USC 2916 note.>> (c) Demonstration Programs and Projects 
To Provide Technical Skills Training for Workers.--
            (1) In general.--In establishing demonstration programs 
        under section 452(c) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 
        U.S.C. 1732(c)), as in effect on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, or demonstration programs or projects under section 
        171(b) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, the Secretary of 
        Labor shall use funds available under section 286(s)(2) to 
        establish demonstration programs or projects to provide 
        technical skills training for workers, including both employed 
        and unemployed workers.
            (2) Grants.--The Secretary of Labor shall award grants to 
        carry out the programs and projects described in paragraph (1) 
        to--
                    (A)(i) private industry councils established under 
                section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 
                U.S.C. 1512), as in effect on the date of the enactment 
                of this Act; or
                    (ii) local boards that will carry out such programs 
                or projects through one-stop delivery systems 
                established under section 121 of the Workforce 
                Investment Act of 1998; or
                    (B) regional consortia of councils or local boards 
                described in subparagraph (A).

     <<NOTE: 42 USC 1869c.>> (d) Low-Income Scholarship Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Director of the National Science 
        Foundation (referred to in this subsection as the ``Director'') 
        shall award scholarships to low-income individuals to enable 
        such individuals to pursue associate, undergraduate, or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-654]]

        graduate level degrees in mathematics, engineering, or computer 
        science.
            (2) Eligibility.--
                    (A) In general.--To be eligible to receive a 
                scholarship under this subsection, an individual--
                          (i) must be a citizen of the United States, a 
                      national of the United States (as defined in 
                      section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
                      Act), an alien admitted as a refugee under section 
                      207 of the Immigration and Nationality, or an 
                      alien lawfully admitted to the United States for 
                      permanent residence;
                          (ii) shall prepare and submit to the Director 
                      an application at such time, in such manner, and 
                      containing such information as the Director may 
                      require; and
                          (iii) shall certify to the Director that the 
                      individual intends to use amounts received under 
                      the scholarship to enroll or continue enrollment 
                      at an institution of higher education (as defined 
                      in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 
                      1965) in order to pursue an associate, 
                      undergraduate, or graduate level degree in 
                      mathematics, engineering, or computer science.
                    (B) Ability.--Awards of scholarships under this 
                subsection shall be made by the Director solely on the 
                basis of the ability of the applicant, except that in 
                any case in which 2 or more applicants for scholarships 
                are deemed by the Director to be possessed of 
                substantially equal ability, and there are not 
                sufficient scholarships available to grant one to each 
                of such
applicants, the available scholarship or scholarships shall be awarded 
to the applicants in a manner that will tend to result in a 
geographically wide distribution throughout the United States of 
recipients' places of permanent residence.
            (3) Limitation.--The amount of a scholarship awarded under 
        this subsection shall be determined by the Director, except that 
        the Director shall not award a scholarship in an amount 
        exceeding $2,500 per year.
            (4) Funding.--The Director shall carry out this subsection 
        only with funds made available under section 286(s)(3) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 415. COMPUTATION OF PREVAILING WAGE LEVEL.

    (a) In General.--Section 212 (8 U.S.C. 1182) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(p)(1) In computing the prevailing wage level for an occupational 
classification in an area of employment for purposes of subsections 
(n)(1)(A)(i)(II) and (a)(5)(A) in the case of an employee of--
            ``(A) an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965), or a 
        related or affiliated nonprofit entity; or
            ``(B) a nonprofit research organization or a Governmental 
        research organization,

the prevailing wage level shall only take into account employees at such 
institutions and organizations in the area of employment.
    ``(2) With respect to a professional athlete (as defined in 
subsection (a)(5)(A)(iii)(II)) when the job opportunity is covered by 
professional sports league rules or regulations, the wage set forth

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-655]]

in those rules or regulations shall be considered as not adversely 
affecting the wages of United States workers similarly employed and be 
considered the prevailing wage.''.
     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) applies to prevailing wage computations made--
            (1) for applications filed on or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) for applications filed before such date, but only to the 
        extent that the computation is subject to an administrative or 
        judicial determination that is not final as of such date.

SEC. 416. <<NOTE: 8 USC 1184 note.>> IMPROVING COUNT OF H-1B AND H-2B 
            NONIMMIGRANTS.

    (a) Ensuring Accurate Count.--The Attorney General shall take such 
steps as are necessary to maintain an accurate count of the number of 
aliens subject to the numerical limitations of section 214(g)(1) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)) who are issued 
visas or otherwise provided nonimmigrant status.
    (b) Revision of Petition Forms.--The Attorney General shall take 
such steps as are necessary to revise the forms used for petitions for 
visas or nonimmigrant status under clause (i)(b) or (ii)(b) of section 
101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(H)) so as to ensure that the forms provide the Attorney 
General with sufficient information to permit the Attorney General 
accurately to count the number of aliens subject to the numerical 
limitations of section 214(g)(1) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)) who 
are issued visas or otherwise provided nonimmigrant status.
    (c) Provision of Information.--
            (1) Quarterly notification.--Beginning not later than 60 
        days after the first day of fiscal year 1999, the Attorney 
        General shall notify, on a quarterly basis, the Committees on 
        the Judiciary of the United States House of Representatives and 
        the Senate of the numbers of aliens who were issued visas or 
        otherwise provided nonimmigrant status under section 
        101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        during the preceding 3-month period.
            (2) Annual submission.--Beginning with fiscal year 2000, the 
        Attorney General shall submit on an annual basis, to the 
        Committees on the Judiciary of the United States House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, information on the countries of 
        origin and occupations of, educational levels attained by, and 
        compensation paid to, aliens who were issued visas or otherwise 
        provided nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act during the previous 
        fiscal year. With respect to the first submission under this 
        paragraph, the information shall relate solely to aliens 
        provided nonimmigrant status after the date that is 60 days 
        after the date on which final regulations are issued to carry 
        out section 412(a).
            (3) Specification of number of petitions filed by certain 
        employers.--Each notification under paragraph (1), and each 
        submission under paragraph (2), shall include the number of 
        aliens who were issued visas or otherwise provided nonimmigrant 
        status pursuant to petitions filed by institutions or 
        organizations described in section 212(p)(1) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (as added by section 415 of this title).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-656]]

SEC. 417. <<NOTE: 29 USC 2701 note.>> REPORT ON OLDER WORKERS IN THE 
            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FIELD.

     <<NOTE: Contracts.>> (a) Study.--The Director of the National 
Science Foundation shall enter into a contract with the President of the 
National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study, using the best 
available data, assessing the status of older workers in the information 
technology field. The study shall consider the following:
            (1) The existence and extent of age discrimination in the 
        information technology workplace.
            (2) The extent to which there is a difference, based on age, 
        in--
                    (A) promotion and advancement;
                    (B) working hours;
                    (C) telecommuting;
                    (D) salary; and
                    (E) stock options, bonuses, and other benefits.
            (3) The relationship between rates of advancement, 
        promotion, and compensation to experience, skill level, 
        education, and age.
            (4) Differences in skill level on the basis of age.

    (b) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2000, the Director of the 
National Science Foundation shall submit to the Committees on the 
Judiciary of the United States House of Representatives and the Senate a 
report containing the results of the study described in subsection (a).

SEC. 418. <<NOTE: 29 USC 2701 note.>> REPORT ON HIGH TECHNOLOGY LABOR 
            MARKET NEEDS; REPORTS ON ECONOMIC IMPACT OF INCREASE IN H-1B 
            NONIMMIGRANTS.

    (a) National Science Foundation Study and Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the National Science 
        Foundation shall conduct a study to assess labor market needs 
        for workers with high technology skills during the next 10 
        years. The study shall investigate and analyze the following:
                    (A) Future training and education needs of companies 
                in the high technology and information technology 
                sectors and future training and education needs of 
                United States students to ensure that students' skills 
                at various levels are matched to the needs in such 
                sectors.
                    (B) An analysis of progress made by educators, 
                employers, and government entities to improve the 
                teaching and educational level of American students in 
                the fields of math, science, computer science, and 
                engineering since 1998.
                    (C) An analysis of the number of United States 
                workers currently or projected to work overseas in 
                professional, technical, and managerial capacities.
                    (D) The relative achievement rates of United States 
                and foreign students in secondary schools in a variety 
                of subjects, including math, science, computer science, 
                English, and history.
                    (E) The relative performance, by subject area, of 
                United States and foreign students in postsecondary and 
                graduate schools as compared to secondary schools.
                    (F) The needs of the high technology sector for 
                foreign workers with specific skills and the potential 
                benefits and costs to United States employers, workers, 
                consumers,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-657]]

                postsecondary educational institutions, and the United 
                States economy, from the entry of skilled foreign 
                professionals in the fields of science and engineering.
                    (G) The needs of the high technology sector to adapt 
                products and services for export to particular local 
                markets in foreign countries.
                    (H) An examination of the amount and trend of moving 
                the production or performance of products and services 
                now occurring in the United States abroad.
            (2) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2000, the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation shall submit to the Committees 
        on the Judiciary of the United States House of Representatives 
        and the Senate a report containing the results of the study 
        described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Involvement.--The study under paragraph (1) shall be 
        conducted in a manner that ensures the participation of 
        individuals representing a variety of points of view.

     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1184 note.>> (b) Reporting on Studies Showing 
Economic Impact of H-1B Nonimmigrant Increase.--The Chairman of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, the Chair of the Council of Economic 
Advisers, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the 
Secretary of Labor, and any other member of the Cabinet, shall promptly 
report to the Congress the results of any reliable study that suggests, 
based on legitimate economic analysis, that the increase effected by 
section 411(a) of this title in the number of aliens who may be issued 
visas or otherwise provided nonimmigrant status under section 
101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act has had an 
impact on any national economic indicator, such as the level of 
inflation or unemployment, that warrants action by the Congress.

Subtitle B--Special Immigrant Status for Certain NATO Civilian Employees

SEC. 421. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN NATO CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--Section 101(a)(27) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (J);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (K) 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(L) an immigrant who would be described in clause (i), 
        (ii), (iii), or (iv) of subparagraph (I) if any reference in 
        such a clause--
                    ``(i) to an international organization described in 
                paragraph (15)(G)(i) were treated as a reference to the 
                North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO);
                    ``(ii) to a nonimmigrant under paragraph (15)(G)(iv) 
                were treated as a reference to a nonimmigrant 
                classifiable under NATO-6 (as a member of a civilian 
                component accompanying a force entering in accordance 
                with the provisions of the NATO Status-of-Forces 
                Agreement, a member of a civilian component attached to 
                or employed by an Allied Headquarters under the 
                `Protocol on the Status of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-658]]

                International Military Headquarters' set up pursuant to 
                the North Atlantic Treaty, or as a dependent); and
                    ``(iii) to the Immigration Technical Corrections Act 
                of 1988 or to the Immigration and Nationality Technical 
                Corrections Act of 1994 were a reference to the American 
                Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 
                1998.''.

    (b) Conforming Nonimmigrant Status for Certain Parents of Special 
Immigrant Children.--Section 101(a)(15)(N) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(N)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(or under analogous authority under 
        paragraph (27)(L))'' after ``(27)(I)(i)''; and
            (2) by inserting ``(or under analogous authority under 
        paragraph (27)(L))'' after ``(27)(I)''.

                   Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provision

SEC. 431. ACADEMIC HONORARIA.

    (a) In General.--Section 212 (8 U.S.C. 1182), as amended by section 
415, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Any alien admitted under section 101(a)(15)(B) may accept an 
honorarium payment and associated incidental expenses for a usual 
academic activity or activities (lasting not longer than 9 days at any 
single institution), as defined by the Attorney General in consultation 
with the Secretary of Education, if such payment is offered by an 
institution or organization described in subsection (p)(1) and is made 
for services conducted for the benefit of that institution or entity and 
if the alien has not accepted such payment or expenses from more than 5 
institutions or organizations in the previous 6-month period.''.
     <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall apply to activities occurring on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

                  TITLE V--SALTON SEA FEASIBILITY STUDY

    (a) In General.--No later than January 1, 2000, the Secretary of the 
Interior, in accordance with this section, shall complete all 
feasibility studies and cost analyses for the options set forth in 
subsection (b)(2)(A) necessary for Congress to fully evaluate such 
options.
    (b) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) The Secretary shall complete all studies, 
                including, but not limited to environmental and other 
                reviews, of the feasibility and benefit-cost of various 
                options that permit the continued use of the Salton Sea 
                as a reservoir for irrigation drainage and (1) reduce 
                and stabilize the overall salinity of the Salton Sea, 
                (2) stabilize the surface elevation of the Salton Sea, 
                (3) reclaim, in the long term, healthy fish and wildlife 
                resources and their habitats, and (4) enhance the 
                potential for recreational uses and economic development 
                of the Salton Sea.
                    (B) Based solely on whatever information is 
                available at the time of submission of the report, the 
                Secretary shall (1) identify any options he deems 
                economically feasible and cost effective, (2) identify 
                any additional

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-659]]

                information necessary to develop construction 
                specifications, and (3) submit any recommendations, 
                along with the results of the study to the Committees no 
                later than January 1, 2000.
                          (i) The Secretary shall carry out the 
                      feasibility study in accordance with a memorandum 
                      of understanding entered into by the Secretary, 
                      the Salton Sea Authority, and the Governor of 
                      California.
                          (ii) The memorandum of understanding shall, at 
                      a minimum, establish criteria for evaluation and 
                      selection of options under subparagraph (2)(A), 
                      including criteria for determining benefits and 
                      the magnitude and practicability of costs of 
                      construction, operation, and maintenance of each 
                      option evaluated.
            (2) Options to be considered.--Options considered in the 
        feasibility study--
                    (A) shall consist of, but need not be limited to--
                          (i) use of impoundments to segregate a portion 
                      of the waters of the Salton Sea in one or more 
                      evaporation ponds located in the Salton Sea basin;
                          (ii) pumping water out of the Salton Sea;
                          (iii) augmented flows of water into the Salton 
                      Sea;
                          (iv) a combination of the options referred to 
                      in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii); and
                          (v) any other economically feasible 
                      remediation option the Secretary considers 
                      appropriate and for which feasibility analyses and 
                      cost estimates can be completed by January 1, 
                      2000;
                    (B) shall be limited to proven technologies; and
                    (C) shall not include any option that--
                          (i) relies on the importation of any new or 
                      additional water from the Colorado River; or
                          (ii) is inconsistent with the provisions of 
                      subsection (c).
            (3) Assumptions.--In evaluating options, the Secretary shall 
        apply assumptions regarding water inflows into the Salton Sea 
        Basin that encourage water conservation, account for transfers 
        of water out of the Salton Sea Basin, and are based on a maximum 
        likely reduction in inflows into the Salton Sea Basin which 
        could be 800,000 acre-feet or less per year.
            (4) Consideration of costs.--In evaluating the feasibility 
        of options, the Secretary shall consider the ability of Federal, 
        tribal, State and local government sources and private sources 
        to fund capital construction costs and annual operation, 
        maintenance, energy, and replacement costs and shall set forth 
        the basis for any cost sharing allocations as well as 
        anticipated repayment, if any, of federal contributions.

    (c) Relationship to Other Law.--
            (1) Reclamation laws.--Activities authorized by this title 
        shall not be subject to the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388; 
        43 U.S.C. 391 et seq.), and Acts amendatory thereof and 
        supplemental thereto. Amounts expended for those activities 
        shall be considered nonreimbursable for purposes of those laws 
        and shall not be considered to be a supplemental or additional 
        benefit for purposes of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (96 
        Stat. 1263; 43 U.S.C. 390aa et seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-660]]

            (2) Preservation of rights and obligations with respect to 
        the colorado river.--This Act shall not be considered to 
        supersede or otherwise affect any treaty, law, decree, contract, 
        or agreement governing use of water from the Colorado River. All 
        activities taken under this Act must be carried out in a manner 
        consistent with rights and obligations of persons under those 
        treaties, laws, decrees, contracts, and agreements.

TITLE VI--CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE, LOWER BRULE SIOUX TRIBE, AND STATE 
        OF SOUTH DAKOTA TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE HABITAT RESTORATION

SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means mitigation 
        of the habitat of wildlife.
            (2) Terrestrial wildlife habitat.--The term ``terrestrial 
        wildlife habitat'' means a habitat for a wildlife species 
        (including game and nongame species) that existed or exists on 
        an upland habitat (including a prairie grassland, woodland, 
        bottom land forest, scrub, or shrub) or an emergent wetland 
        habitat.
            (3) Wildlife.--The term ``wildlife'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 8 of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 666b).

SEC. 602. TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE HABITAT RESTORATION.

    (a) Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Plans.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with this subsection and in 
        consultation with the Secretary and the Secretary of the 
        Interior, the State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux 
        Tribe, and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe shall, as a condition of 
        the receipt of funds under this title, each develop a plan for 
        the restoration of terrestrial wildlife habitat loss that 
        occurred as a result of flooding related to the Big Bend and 
        Oahe projects carried out as part of the Pick-Sloan Missouri 
        River Basin program.
            (2) Submission of plan to secretary.--On completion of a 
        plan for terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration, the State of 
        South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, and the Lower 
        Brule Sioux Tribe shall submit the plan to the Secretary.
            (3) Review by secretary and submission to committees.--The 
        Secretary shall review the plan and submit the plan, with any 
        comments, to the appropriate committees of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives.
            (4) Funding for carrying out plans.--
                    (A) State of south dakota.--
                          (i) Notification.--On receipt of the plan for 
                      terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration submitted 
                      by the State of South Dakota, each of the 
                      Committees referred to in paragraph (3) shall 
                      notify the Secretary of the Treasury of the 
                      receipt of the plan.
                          (ii) Availability of funds.--On notification 
                      in accordance with clause (i), the Secretary of 
                      the Treasury shall make available to the State of 
                      South Dakota funds from the South Dakota 
                      Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust 
                      Fund established under section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-661]]

                      803, to be used to carry out the plan for 
                      terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration submitted 
                      by the State and only after the Trust Fund is 
                      fully capitalized.
                    (B) Cheyenne river sioux tribe and lower brule sioux 
                tribe.--
                          (i) Notification.--On receipt of the plan for 
                      terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration submitted 
                      by the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower 
                      Brule Sioux Tribe, each of the Committees referred 
                      to in paragraph (3) shall notify the Secretary of 
                      the Treasury of the receipt of each of the plans.
                          (ii) Availability of funds.--On notification 
                      in accordance with clause (i), the Secretary of 
                      the Treasury shall make available to the Cheyenne 
                      River Sioux
Tribe and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe funds from the Cheyenne River 
Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund and the 
Lower Brule Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust 
Fund, respectively, established under section 804, to be used to carry 
out the plan for terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration submitted by 
the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, 
respectively, and only after the Trust Fund is fully capitalized.
                    (C) Transition period.--
                          (i) In general.--During the period described 
                      in clause (ii), the Secretary shall--
                                    (I) fund the terrestrial wildlife 
                                habitat restoration programs being 
                                carried out on the date of enactment of 
                                this Act on Oahe and Big Bend project 
                                land and the plans established under 
                                this section at a level that does not 
                                exceed the highest amount of funding 
                                that was provided for the programs 
                                during a previous fiscal year; and
                                    (II) fund the activities described 
                                in sections 803(d)(3) and 804(d)(3).
                          (ii) Period.--Clause (i) shall apply during 
                      the period--
                                    (I) beginning on the date of 
                                enactment of this Act; and
                                    (II) ending on the date on which 
                                funds are made available for use from 
                                the South Dakota Terrestrial Wildlife 
                                Habitat Restoration Trust Fund under 
                                section 803(d)(3)(A)(i) and the Cheyenne 
                                River Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife 
                                Habitat Restoration Trust Fund and the 
                                Lower Brule Sioux Tribe Terrestrial 
                                Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund 
                                under section 804(d)(3)(A)(i).

    (b) Programs for the Purchase of Wildlife Habitat Leases.--
            (1) In general.--The State of South Dakota may use funds 
        made available under section 803(d)(3)(A)(iii) to develop a 
        program for the purchase of wildlife habitat leases that meets 
        the requirements of this subsection.
            (2) Development of a plan.--
                    (A) In general.--If the State of South Dakota, the 
                Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, or the Lower Brule Sioux

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-662]]

                Tribe elects to conduct a program under this subsection, 
                the State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux 
                Tribe, or the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe (in consultation 
                with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the 
                Secretary and with an opportunity for public comment) 
                shall develop a plan to lease land for the protection 
                and development of wildlife habitat, including habitat 
                for threatened and endangered species, associated with 
                the Missouri River ecosystem.
                    (B) Use for program.--The plan shall be used by the 
                State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, 
                or the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe in carrying out the 
                program carried out under paragraph (1).
            (3) Conditions of leases.--Each lease covered under a 
        program carried out under paragraph (1) shall specify that the 
        owner of the property that is subject to the lease shall 
        provide--
                    (A) public access for sportsmen during hunting 
                season; and
                    (B) public access for other outdoor uses covered 
                under the lease, as negotiated by the landowner and the 
                State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, 
                or the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe.
            (4) Use of assistance.--
                    (A) State of south dakota.--If the State of South 
                Dakota conducts a program under this subsection, the 
                State may use funds made available under section 
                803(d)(3)(A)(iii) to--
                          (i) acquire easements, rights-of-way, or 
                      leases for management and protection of wildlife 
                      habitat, including habitat for threatened and 
                      endangered species, and public access to wildlife 
                      on private property in the State of South Dakota;
                          (ii) create public access to Federal or State 
                      land through the purchase of easements or rights-
                      of-way that traverse such private property; or
                          (iii) lease land for the creation or 
                      restoration of a wetland on such private property.
                    (B) Cheyenne river sioux tribe and lower brule sioux 
                tribe.--If the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe or the Lower 
                Brule Sioux Tribe conducts a program under this 
                subsection, the Tribe may use funds made available under 
                section 804(d)(3)(A)(iii) for the purposes described in 
                subparagraph (A).

    (c) Federal Obligation for Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Mitigation 
for the Big Bend and Oahe Projects in South Dakota.--The establishment 
of the trust funds under sections 803 and 804 and the development and 
implementation of plans for terrestrial wildlife habitat restoration 
developed by the State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, 
and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe in accordance with this section shall be 
considered to satisfy the Federal obligation under the Fish and Wildlife 
Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) for terrestrial wildlife 
habitat mitigation for the State of South Dakota, the Cheyenne River 
Sioux Tribe, and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe for the Big Bend and Oahe 
projects carried out as part of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin 
program.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-663]]

SEC. 603. SOUTH DAKOTA TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE HABITAT RESTORATION TRUST 
            FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a fund to be known as the ``South Dakota Terrestrial 
Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund'' (referred to in this section 
as the ``Fund'').
    (b) Funding.--For the fiscal year during which this Act is enacted 
and each fiscal year thereafter until the aggregate amount deposited in 
the Fund under this subsection is equal to at least $108,000,000, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit $10,000,000 in the Fund.
    (c) Investments.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest the 
amounts deposited under subsection (b) only in interest-bearing 
obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed by the 
United States as to both principal and interest.
    (d) Payments.--
            (1) In general.--All amounts credited as interest under 
        subsection (c) shall be available, without fiscal year 
        limitation, to the State of South Dakota for use in accordance 
        with paragraph (3) after the Fund has been fully capitalized.
            (2) Withdrawal and transfer of funds.--Subject to section 
        802(a)(4)(A), the Secretary of the Treasury shall withdraw 
        amounts credited as interest under paragraph (1) and transfer 
        the amounts to the State of South Dakota for use as State funds 
        in accordance with paragraph (3) after the Fund has been fully 
        capitalized.
            (3) Use of transferred funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                State of South Dakota shall use the amounts transferred 
                under paragraph (2) only to--
                          (i) fully fund the annually scheduled work 
                      described in the terrestrial wildlife habitat 
                      restoration plan of the State developed under 
                      section 802(a); and
                          (ii) with any remaining funds--
                                    (I) protect archaeological, 
                                historical, and cultural sites located 
                                along the Missouri River on land 
                                transferred to the State;
                                    (II) fund all costs associated with 
                                the ownership, management, operation, 
                                administration, maintenance, and 
                                development of recreation areas and 
                                other lands that are transferred to the 
                                State of South Dakota by the Secretary;
                                    (III) purchase and administer 
                                wildlife habitat leases under section 
                                802(b);
                                    (IV) carry out other activities 
                                described in section 802; and
                                    (V) develop and maintain public 
                                access to, and protect, wildlife habitat 
                                and recreation areas along the Missouri 
                                River.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The amounts transferred under 
                paragraph (2) shall not be used for the purchase of land 
                in fee title.

    (e) Transfers and Withdrawals.--Except as provided in subsection 
(d), the Secretary of the Treasury may not transfer or withdraw any 
amount deposited under subsection (b).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-664]]

    (f) Administrative Expenses.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as are necessary 
to pay the administrative expenses of the Fund.

SEC. 604. CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE AND LOWER BRULE SIOUX TRIBE 
            TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE HABITAT RESTORATION TRUST FUNDS.

    (a) Establishment.--There are established in the Treasury of the 
United States 2 funds to be known as the ``Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe 
Terrestrial Wildlife Restoration Trust Fund'' and the ``Lower Brule 
Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Trust Fund'' (each 
of which is referred to in this section as a ``Fund'').
    (b) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), for the fiscal 
        year during which this Act is enacted and each fiscal year 
        thereafter until the aggregate amount deposited in the Funds 
        under this subsection is equal to at least $57,400,000, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit $5,000,000 in the Funds.
            (2) Allocation.--Of the total amount of funds deposited into 
        the Funds for a fiscal year, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        deposit--
                    (A) 74 percent of the funds into the Cheyenne River 
                Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Restoration Trust Fund; 
                and
                    (B) 26 percent of the funds into the Lower Brule 
                Sioux Tribe Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration 
                Trust Fund.

    (c) Investments.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest the 
amounts deposited under subsection (b) only in interest-bearing 
obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both 
principal and interest by the United States.
    (d) Payments.--
            (1) In general.--All amounts credited as interest under 
        subsection (c) shall be available after the Trust Funds are 
        fully capitalized, without fiscal year limitation, to the 
        Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe for 
        their use in accordance with paragraph (3).
            (2) Withdrawal and transfer of funds.--Subject to section 
        802(a)(4)(B), the Secretary of the Treasury shall withdraw 
        amounts credited as interest under paragraph (1) and transfer 
        the amounts to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower 
        Brule Sioux Tribe for use in accordance with paragraph (3).
            (3) Use of transferred funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower Brule Sioux 
                Tribe shall use the amounts transferred under paragraph 
                (2) only to--
                          (i) fully fund the annually scheduled work 
                      described in the terrestrial wildlife habitat 
                      restoration plan of the respective Tribe developed 
                      under section 802(a); and
                          (ii) with any remaining funds--
                                    (I) protect archaeological, 
                                historical, and cultural sites located 
                                along the Missouri River on land 
                                transferred to the respective Tribe;
                                    (II) fund all costs associated with 
                                the ownership, management, operation, 
                                administration,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-665]]

                                maintenance, and development of 
                                recreation areas and other lands that 
                                are transferred to the respective Tribe 
                                by the Secretary;
                                    (III) purchase and administer 
                                wildlife habitat leases under section 
                                802(b);
                                    (IV) carry out other activities 
                                described in section 802; and
                                    (V) develop and maintain public 
                                access to, and protect, wildlife habitat 
                                and recreation areas along the Missouri 
                                River.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The amounts transferred under 
                paragraph (2) shall not be used for the purchase of land 
                in fee title.

    (e) Transfers and Withdrawals.--Except as provided in subsection 
(d), the Secretary of the Treasury may not transfer or withdraw any 
amount deposited under subsection (b).
    (f) Administrative Expenses.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as are necessary 
to pay the administrative expenses of the Fund.

SEC. 605. TRANSFER OF FEDERAL LAND TO STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Transfer.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall transfer to the 
                Department of Game, Fish and Parks of the State of South 
                Dakota (referred to in this section as the 
                ``Department'') the land and recreation areas described 
                in subsections (b) and (c) for fish and wildlife 
                purposes, or public recreation uses, in perpetuity.
                    (B) Permits, rights-of-way, and easements.--All 
                permits, rights-of-way, and easements granted by the 
                Secretary to the Oglala Sioux Tribe for land on the west 
                side of the Missouri River between the Oahe Dam and 
                Highway 14, and all permits, rights-of-way, and 
                easements on any other land administered by the 
                Secretary and used by the Oglala Sioux Rural Water 
                Supply System, are granted to the Oglala Sioux Tribe in 
                perpetuity to be held in trust under section 3(e) of the 
                Mni Wiconi Project Act of 1988 (102 Stat. 2568).
            (2) Uses.--The Department shall maintain and develop the 
        land outside the recreation areas for fish and wildlife purposes 
        in accordance with--
                    (A) fish and wildlife purposes in effect on the date 
                of enactment of this Act; or
                    (B) a plan developed under section 802.
            (3) Corps of engineers.--The transfer shall not interfere 
        with the Corps of Engineers operation of a project under this 
        section for an authorized purpose of the project under the Act 
        of December 22, 1944 (58 Stat. 887, chapter 665; 33 U.S.C. 701-1 
        et seq.), or other applicable law.
            (4) Secretary.--The Secretary shall retain the right to 
        inundate with water the land transferred to the Department under 
        this section or draw down a project reservoir, as necessary to 
        carry out an authorized purpose of a project.

    (b) Land Transferred.--The land described in this subsection is land 
that--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-666]]

            (1) is located above the top of the exclusive flood pool of 
        the Oahe, Big Bend, Fort Randall, and Gavin's Point projects of 
        the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program;
            (2) was acquired by the Secretary for the implementation of 
        the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program;
            (3) is located outside the external boundaries of a 
        reservation of an Indian Tribe; and
            (4) is located within the State of South Dakota.

    (c) Recreation Areas Transferred.--A recreation area described in 
this section includes the land and waters within a recreation area 
that--
            (1) the Secretary determines, at the time of the transfer, 
        is a recreation area classified for recreation use by the Corps 
        of Engineers on the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) is located outside the external boundaries of a 
        reservation of an Indian Tribe;
            (3) is located within the State of South Dakota;
            (4) is not the recreation area known as ``Cottonwood'', 
        ``Training Dike'', or ``Tailwaters''; and
            (5) is located below Gavin's Point Dam in the State of South 
        Dakota in accordance with boundary agreements and reciprocal 
        fishing agreements between the State of South Dakota and the 
        State of Nebraska in effect on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, which agreements shall continue to be honored by the State 
        of South Dakota as the agreements apply to any land or 
        recreation areas transferred under this title to the State of 
        South Dakota below Gavin's Point Dam and on the waters of the 
        Missouri River.

    (d) Map.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Department, shall prepare a map of the land and recreation areas 
        transferred under this section.
            (2) Land.--The map shall identify--
                    (A) land reasonably expected to be required for 
                project purposes during the 20-year period beginning on 
                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) dams and related structures;
        which shall be retained by the Secretary.
            (3) Availability.--The map shall be on file in the 
        appropriate offices of the Secretary.

    (e) Schedule for Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army and the 
        Secretary of the Department shall jointly develop a schedule for 
        transferring the land and recreation areas under this section.
            (2) Transfer deadline.--All land and recreation areas shall 
        be transferred not later than 1 year after the full 
        capitalization of the Trust Fund described in section 803.

    (f) Transfer Conditions.--The land and recreation areas described in 
subsections (b) and (c) shall be transferred in fee title to the 
Department on the following conditions:
            (1) Responsibility for damage.--The Secretary shall not be 
        responsible for any damage to the land caused by flooding, 
        sloughing, erosion, or other changes to the land caused by the 
        operation of any project of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin 
        program (except as otherwise provided by Federal law).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-667]]

            (2) Easements, rights-of-way, leases, and cost-sharing 
        agreements.--The Department shall maintain all easements, 
        rights-of-way, leases, and cost-sharing agreements that are in 
        effect as of the date of the transfer.

    (g) Hunting and Fishing.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title affects jurisdiction 
        over the land and water below the exclusive flood pool of the 
        Missouri River within the State of South Dakota, including 
        affected Indian reservations. The State of South Dakota, the 
        Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, and the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe 
        shall continue in perpetuity to exercise the jurisdiction the 
        State and Tribes possess on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) No effect on respective jurisdictions.--The Secretary 
        may not adopt any regulation or otherwise affect the respective 
        jurisdictions of the State of South Dakota, the Lower Brule 
        River Sioux Tribe, or the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe described 
        in paragraph (1).

    (h) Applicability of Law.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this Act, the following provisions of law shall apply to land 
transferred under this section:
            (1) The National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et 
        seq.), including sections 106 and 304 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 
        470f, 470w-3).
            (2) The Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 
        U.S.C. 470aa et seq.), including sections 4, 6, 7, and 9 of that 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 470cc, 470ee, 470ff, 470hh).
            (3) The Native American Graves Protection Act and 
        Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), including subsections 
        (a) and (d) of section 3 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 3003).

SEC. 606. TRANSFER OF CORPS OF ENGINEERS LAND FOR INDIAN TRIBES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Transfer.--The Secretary of the Army shall transfer to 
        the Secretary of the Interior the land and recreation areas 
        described in subsections (b) and (c).
            (2) Corps of engineers.--The transfer shall not interfere 
        with the Corps of Engineers operation of a project under this 
        section for an authorized purpose of the project under the Act 
        of December 22, 1944 (58 Stat. 887, chapter 665; 33 U.S.C. 701-1 
        et seq.), or other applicable law.
            (3) Secretary of the army.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
        retain the right to inundate with water the land transferred to 
        the Secretary of the Interior under this section or draw down a 
        project reservoir, as necessary to carry out an authorized 
        purpose of a project.
            (4) Trust.--The Secretary of the Interior shall hold in 
        trust for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower Brule 
        Sioux Tribe the land transferred under this section that is 
        located within the external boundaries of the reservation of the 
        Indian Tribes.

    (b) Land Transferred.--The land described in this subsection is land 
that--
            (1) is located above the top of the exclusive flood pool of 
        the Big Bend and Oahe projects of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River 
        Basin program;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-668]]

            (2) was acquired by the Secretary of the Army for the 
        implementation of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program; 
        and
            (3) is located within the external boundaries of the 
        reservation of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower 
        Brule Sioux Tribe.

    (c) Recreation Areas Transferred.--A recreation area described in 
this section includes the land and waters within a recreation area 
that--
            (1) the Secretary determines, at the time of the transfer, 
        is a recreation area classified for recreation
use by the Corps of Engineers on the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) is located within the external boundaries of a 
        reservation of an Indian Tribe; and
            (3) is located within the State of South Dakota.

    (d) Map.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        governing bodies of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower 
        Brule Sioux Tribe, shall prepare a map of the land transferred 
        under this section.
            (2) Land.--The map shall identify--
                    (A) land reasonably expected to be required for 
                project purposes during the 20-year period beginning on 
                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) dams and related structures;
        which shall be retained by the Secretary.
            (3) Availability.--The map shall be on file in the 
        appropriate offices of the Secretary.

    (e) Schedule for Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Chairmen of the 
        Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe shall 
        jointly develop a schedule for transferring the land and 
        recreation areas under this section.
            (2) Transfer deadline.--All land and recreation areas shall 
        be transferred not later than 1 year after the full 
        capitalization of the State and tribal Trust Fund described in 
        section 804.

    (f) Transfer Conditions.--The land and recreation areas described in 
subsections (b) and (c) shall be transferred to, and held in trust by, 
the Secretary of the Interior on the following conditions:
            (1) Responsibility for damage.--The Secretary shall not be 
        responsible for any damage to the land caused by flooding, 
        sloughing, erosion, or other changes to the land caused by the 
        operation of any project of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin 
        program (except as otherwise provided by Federal law).
            (2) Hunting and fishing.--Nothing in this title affects 
        jurisdiction over the land and waters below the exclusive flood 
        pool and within the external boundaries of the Cheyenne River 
        Sioux Tribe and Lower Brule Sioux Tribe reservations. The State 
        of South Dakota, the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, and the Cheyenne 
        River Sioux Tribe shall continue to exercise, in perpetuity, the 
        jurisdiction they possess on the date of enactment of this Act 
        with regard to those lands and waters. The Secretary may not 
        adopt any regulation or otherwise affect the respective 
        jurisdictions of the State of South Dakota, the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-669]]

        Lower Brule River Sioux Tribe, or the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe 
        described in the preceding sentence. Jurisdiction over the land 
        transferred under this section shall be the same as that over 
        other land held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior on the 
        Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe reservation and the Lower Brule Sioux 
        Tribe reservation.
            (3) Easements, rights-of-way, leases, and cost-sharing 
        agreements.--
                    (A) Maintenance.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                shall maintain all easements, rights-of-way, leases, and 
                cost-sharing agreements that are in effect as of the 
                date of the transfer.
                    (B) Payments to county.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall pay any affected county 100 percent of 
                the receipts from the easements, rights-of-way, leases, 
                and cost-sharing agreements described in subparagraph 
                (A).

SEC. 607. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this title diminishes or affects--
            (1) any water right of an Indian Tribe;
            (2) any other right of an Indian Tribe, except as 
        specifically provided in another provision of this title;
            (3) any treaty right that is in effect on the date of 
        enactment of this Act;
            (4) any external boundary of an Indian reservation of an 
        Indian Tribe;
            (5) any authority of the State of South Dakota that relates 
        to the protection, regulation, or management of fish, 
        terrestrial wildlife, and cultural and archaeological resources, 
        except as specifically provided in this title; or
            (6) any authority of the Secretary, the Secretary of the 
        Interior, or the head of any other Federal agency under a law in 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act, including--
                    (A) the National Historic Preservation Act (16 
                U.S.C. 470 et seq.);
                    (B) the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 
                1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.);
                    (C) the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 
                U.S.C. 661 et seq.);
                    (D) the Act entitled ``An Act for the protection of 
                the bald eagle'', approved June 8, 1940 (16 U.S.C. 668 
                et seq.);
                    (E) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 et 
                seq.);
                    (F) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.);
                    (G) the Native American Graves Protection and 
                Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.);
                    (H) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                (commonly known as the ``Clean Water Act'') (33 U.S.C. 
                1251 et seq.);
                    (I) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et 
                seq.); and
                    (J) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

    (b) Federal Liability for Damage.--Nothing in this title relieves 
the Federal Government of liability for damage to private land caused by 
the operation of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-670]]

    (c) Flood Control.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
title, the Secretary shall retain the authority to operate the Pick-
Sloan Missouri River Basin program for purposes of meeting the 
requirements of the Act of December 22, 1944 (58 Stat. 887, chapter 665; 
33 U.S.C. 701-1 et seq.).

SEC. 608. STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall arrange for the United States 
Geological Survey, in consultation with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and 
other appropriate Federal agencies, to conduct a comprehensive study of 
the potential impacts of the transfer of land under sections 805(b) and 
806(b), including potential impacts on South Dakota Sioux Tribes having 
water claims within the Missouri River Basin, on water flows in the 
Missouri River.
    (b) No Transfer Pending Determination.--No transfer of land under 
section 805(b) or 806(b) shall occur until the Secretary determines, 
based on the study, that the transfer of land under either section will 
not significantly reduce the amount of water flow to the downstream 
States of the Missouri River.

SEC. 609. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Secretary.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary such sums as are necessary--
            (1) to pay the administrative expenses incurred by the 
        Secretary in carrying out this title; and
            (2) to fund the implementation of terrestrial wildlife 
        habitat restoration plans under section 802(a) and other 
        activities under sections 803(d)(3) and 804(d)(3).

    (b) Secretary of the Interior.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior such sums as are necessary 
to pay the administrative expenses incurred by the Secretary of the 
Interior in carrying out this title.

TITLE <<NOTE: Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act 
of 1998.>> VII--OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY REAUTHORIZATION

SEC. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1701 note.>> 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Office of National Drug Control 
Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998''.

SEC. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1701.>> 702. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Demand reduction.--The term ``demand reduction'' means 
        any activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program 
        agency, other than an enforcement activity, that is intended to 
        reduce the use of drugs, including--
                    (A) drug abuse education;
                    (B) drug abuse prevention;
                    (C) drug abuse treatment;
                    (D) drug abuse research;
                    (E) drug abuse rehabilitation;
                    (F) drug-free workplace programs; and
                    (G) drug testing.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        National Drug Control Policy.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-671]]

            (3) Drug.--The term ``drug'' has the meaning given the term 
        ``controlled substance'' in section 102(6) of the Controlled 
        Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)).
            (4) Drug control.--The term ``drug control'' means any 
        activity conducted by a National Drug Control Program agency 
        involving supply reduction or demand reduction.
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the fund established 
        under section 703(d).
            (6) National drug control program.--The term ``National Drug 
        Control Program'' means programs, policies, and activities 
        undertaken by National Drug Control Program agencies pursuant to 
        the responsibilities of such agencies under the National Drug 
        Control Strategy.
            (7) National drug control program agency.--The term 
        ``National Drug Control Program agency'' means any agency that 
        is responsible for implementing any aspect of the National Drug 
        Control Strategy, including any agency that receives Federal 
        funds to implement any aspect of the National Drug Control 
        Strategy, but does not include any agency that receives funds 
        for drug control activity solely under the National Foreign 
        Intelligence Program, the Joint Military Intelligence Program or 
        Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities, unless such agency 
        has been designated--
                    (A) by the President; or
                    (B) jointly by the Director and the head of the 
                agency.
            (8) National drug control strategy.--The term ``National 
        Drug Control Strategy'' means the strategy developed and 
        submitted to Congress under section 706.
            (9) Office.--Unless the context clearly implicates 
        otherwise, the term ``Office'' means the Office of National Drug 
        Control Policy established under section 703(a).
            (10) State and local affairs.--The term ``State and local 
        affairs'' means domestic activities conducted by a National Drug 
        Control Program agency that are intended to reduce the 
        availability and use of drugs, including--
                    (A) coordination and facilitation of Federal, State, 
                and local law enforcement drug control efforts;
                    (B) promotion of coordination and cooperation among 
                the drug supply reduction and demand reduction agencies 
                of the various States, territories, and units of local 
                government; and
                    (C) such other cooperative governmental activities 
                which promote a comprehensive approach to drug control 
                at the national, State, territory, and local levels.
            (11) Supply reduction.--The term ``supply reduction'' means 
        any activity of a program conducted by a National Drug Control 
        Program agency that is intended to reduce the availability or 
        use of drugs in the United States and abroad, including--
                    (A) international drug control;
                    (B) foreign and domestic drug intelligence;
                    (C) interdiction; and
                    (D) domestic drug law enforcement, including law 
                enforcement directed at drug users.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-672]]

SEC. 703. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1702.>> OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY.

    (a) Establishment of Office.--There is established in the Executive 
Office of the President an Office of National Drug Control Policy, which 
shall--
            (1) develop national drug control policy;
            (2) coordinate and oversee the implementation of that 
        national drug control policy;
            (3) assess and certify the adequacy of national drug control 
        programs and the budget for those programs; and
            (4) evaluate the effectiveness of the national drug control 
        programs.

    (b) Director and Deputy Directors.--
            (1) Director.--There shall be at the head of the Office a 
        Director of National Drug Control Policy.
            (2) Deputy director of national drug control policy.--There 
        shall be in the Office a Deputy Director of National Drug 
        Control Policy, who shall assist the Director in carrying out 
        the responsibilities of the Director under this title.
            (3) Other deputy directors.--There shall be in the Office--
                    (A) a Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, who 
                shall be responsible for the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 702(1);
                    (B) a Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, who 
                shall be responsible for the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 702(11); and
                    (C) a Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, 
                who shall be responsible for the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section 702(10) and 
                subparagraph (D) of section 702(11).

    (c) Access by Congress.--The location of the Office in the Executive 
Office of the President shall not be construed as affecting access by 
Congress, or any committee of the House of Representatives or the 
Senate, to any--
            (1) information, document, or study in the possession of, or 
        conducted by or at the direction of the Director; or
            (2) personnel of the Office.

    (d) Office of National Drug Control Policy Gift Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund for the receipt of gifts, both real and 
        personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of 
        the Office under section 704(c).
            (2) Contributions.--The Office may accept, hold, and 
        administer contributions to the Fund.
            (3) Use of amounts deposited.--Amounts deposited in the Fund 
        are authorized to be appropriated, to remain available until 
        expended for authorized purposes at the discretion of the 
        Director.

SEC. 704. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1703.>> APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR AND 
            DEPUTY DIRECTORS.

    (a) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, the Deputy Director of 
        National Drug Control Policy, the Deputy Director for Demand 
        Reduction, the Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, and the 
        Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, shall each be 
        appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-673]]

        of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. 
        In appointing the Deputy Director for Demand Reduction under 
        this paragraph, the President shall take into consideration the 
        scientific, educational or professional background of the 
        individual, and whether the individual has experience in the 
        fields of substance abuse prevention, education, or treatment.
            (2) Duties of deputy director of national drug control 
        policy.--The Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy 
        shall--
                    (A) carry out the duties and powers prescribed by 
                the Director; and
                    (B) serve as the Director in the absence of the 
                Director or during any period in which the office of the 
                Director is vacant.
            (3) Designation of other officers.--In the absence of the 
        Deputy Director, or if the Office of the Deputy Director is 
        vacant, the Director shall designate such other permanent 
        employee of the Office to serve as the Director, if the Director 
        is absent or unable to serve.
            (4) Prohibition.--No person shall serve as Director or a 
        Deputy Director while serving in any other position in the 
        Federal Government.
            (5) Prohibition on political campaigning.--Any officer or 
        employee of the Office who is appointed to that position by the 
        President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may 
        not participate in Federal election campaign activities, except 
        that such official is not prohibited by this paragraph from 
        making contributions to individual candidates.

    (b) Responsibilities.--The Director--
            (1) shall assist the President in the establishment of 
        policies, goals, objectives, and priorities for the National 
        Drug Control Program;
            (2) shall promulgate the National Drug Control Strategy 
        under section 706(a) and each report under section 706(b) in 
        accordance with section 706;
            (3) shall coordinate and oversee the implementation by the 
        National Drug Control Program agencies of the policies, goals, 
        objectives, and priorities established under paragraph (1) and 
        the fulfillment of the responsibilities of such agencies under 
        the
National Drug Control Strategy and make recommendations to National Drug 
Control Program agency heads with respect to implementation of Federal 
counter-drug programs;
            (4) shall make such recommendations to the President as the 
        Director determines are appropriate regarding changes in the 
        organization, management, and budgets of Federal departments and 
        agencies engaged in drug enforcement, and changes in the 
        allocation of personnel to and within those departments and 
        agencies, to implement the policies, goals, priorities, and 
        objectives established under paragraph (1) and the National Drug 
        Control Strategy;
            (5) shall consult with and assist State and local 
        governments with respect to the formulation and implementation 
        of National Drug Control Policy and their relations with the 
        National Drug Control Program agencies;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-674]]

            (6) shall appear before duly constituted committees and 
        subcommittees of the House of Representatives and of the Senate 
        to represent the drug policies of the executive branch;
            (7) shall notify any National Drug Control Program agency if 
        its policies are not in compliance with the responsibilities of 
        the agency under the National Drug Control Strategy, transmit a 
        copy of each such notification to the President, and maintain a 
        copy of each such notification;
            (8) shall provide, by July 1 of each year, budget 
        recommendations, including requests for specific initiatives 
        that are consistent with the priorities of the President under 
        the National Drug Control Strategy, to the heads of departments 
        and agencies with responsibilities under the National Drug 
        Control Program, which recommendations shall--
                    (A) apply to the next budget year scheduled for 
                formulation under the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, 
                and each of the 4 subsequent fiscal years; and
                    (B) address funding priorities developed in the 
                National Drug Control Strategy;
            (9) may serve as representative of the President in 
        appearing before Congress on all issues relating to the National 
        Drug Control Program;
            (10) shall, in any matter affecting national security 
        interests, work in conjunction with the Assistant to the 
        President for National Security Affairs;
            (11) may serve as spokesperson of the Administration on drug 
        issues;
            (12) shall ensure that no Federal funds appropriated to the 
        Office of National Drug Control Policy shall be expended for any 
        study or contract relating to the legalization (for a medical 
        use or any other use) of a substance listed in schedule I of 
        section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) and 
        take such actions as necessary to oppose any attempt to legalize 
        the use of a substance (in any form) that--
                    (A) is listed in schedule I of section 202 of the 
                Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812); and
                    (B) has not been approved for use for medical 
                purposes by the Food and Drug Administration;
            (13) shall require each National Drug Control Program agency 
        to submit to the Director on an annual basis (beginning in 1999) 
        an evaluation of progress by the agency with respect to drug 
        control program goals using the performance measures for the 
        agency developed under section 706(c), including progress with 
        respect to--
                    (A) success in reducing domestic and foreign sources 
                of illegal drugs;
                    (B) success in protecting the borders of the United 
                States (and in particular the Southwestern border of the 
                United States) from penetration by illegal narcotics;
                    (C) success in reducing violent crime associated 
                with drug use in the United States;
                    (D) success in reducing the negative health and 
                social consequences of drug use in the United States; 
                and
                    (E) implementation of drug treatment and prevention 
                programs in the United States and improvements in the 
                adequacy and effectiveness of such programs;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-675]]

            (14) shall submit to the Appropriations committees and the 
        authorizing committees of jurisdiction of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate on an annual basis, not later 
        than 60 days after the date of the last day of the applicable 
        period, a summary of--
                    (A) each of the evaluations received by the Director 
                under paragraph (13); and
                    (B) the progress of each National Drug Control 
                Program agency toward the drug control program goals of 
                the agency using the performance measures for the agency 
                developed under section 706(c); and
            (15) shall ensure that drug prevention and drug treatment 
        research and information is effectively disseminated by National 
        Drug Control Program agencies to State and local governments and 
        nongovernmental entities involved in demand reduction by--
                    (A) encouraging formal consultation between any such 
                agency that conducts or sponsors research, and any such 
                agency that disseminates information in developing 
                research and information product development agendas;
                    (B) encouraging such agencies (as appropriate) to 
                develop and implement dissemination plans that 
                specifically target State and local governments and 
                nongovernmental entities involved in demand reduction; 
                and
                    (C) developing a single interagency clearinghouse 
                for the dissemination of research and information by 
                such agencies to State and local governments and 
                nongovernmental agencies involved in demand reduction.

    (c) National Drug Control Program Budget.--
            (1) Responsibilities of national drug control program 
        agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--For each fiscal year, the head of 
                each department, agency, or program of the Federal 
                Government with responsibilities under the National Drug 
                Control Program Strategy shall transmit to the Director 
                a copy of the proposed drug control budget request of 
                the department, agency, or program at the same time as 
                that budget request is submitted to their superiors (and 
                before submission to the Office of Management and 
                Budget) in the preparation of the budget of the 
                President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of 
                title 31, United States Code.
                    (B) Submission of drug control budget requests.--The 
                head of each National Drug Control Program agency shall 
                ensure timely development and submission to the Director 
                of each proposed drug control budget request transmitted 
                pursuant to this paragraph, in such format as may be 
                designated by the Director with the concurrence of the 
                Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
            (2) National drug control program budget proposal.--For each 
        fiscal year, following the transmission of proposed drug control 
        budget requests to the Director under paragraph (1), the 
        Director shall, in consultation with the head of each National 
        Drug Control Program agency--
                    (A) develop a consolidated National Drug Control 
                Program budget proposal designed to implement the 
                National Drug Control Strategy;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-676]]

                    (B) submit the consolidated budget proposal to the 
                President; and
                    (C) after submission under subparagraph (B), submit 
                the consolidated budget proposal to Congress.
            (3) Review and certification of budget requests and budget 
        submissions of national drug control program agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall review each drug 
                control budget request submitted to the Director under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Review of budget requests.--
                          (i) Inadequate requests.--If the Director 
                      concludes that a budget request submitted under 
                      paragraph (1) is inadequate, in whole or in part, 
                      to implement the objectives of the National Drug 
                      Control Strategy with respect to the department, 
                      agency, or program at issue for the year for which 
                      the request is submitted, the Director shall 
                      submit to the head of the applicable National Drug 
                      Control Program agency a written description of 
                      funding levels and specific initiatives that 
                      would, in the determination of the Director, make 
                      the request adequate to implement those 
                      objectives.
                          (ii) Adequate requests.--If the Director 
                      concludes that a budget request submitted under 
                      paragraph (1) is adequate to implement the 
                      objectives of the National Drug Control Strategy 
                      with respect to the department, agency, or program 
                      at issue for the year for which the request is 
                      submitted, the Director shall submit to the head 
                      of the applicable National Drug Control Program 
                      agency a written statement confirming the adequacy 
                      of the request.
                          (iii) Record.--The Director shall maintain a 
                      record of each description submitted under clause 
                      (i) and each statement submitted under clause 
                      (ii).
                    (C) Agency response.--
                          (i) In general.--The head of a National Drug 
                      Control Program agency that receives a description 
                      under subparagraph (B)(i) shall include the 
                      funding levels and initiatives described by the 
                      Director in the budget submission for that agency 
                      to the Office of Management and Budget.
                          (ii) Impact statement.--The head of a National 
                      Drug Control Program agency that has altered its 
                      budget submission under this subparagraph shall 
                      include as an appendix to the budget submission 
                      for that agency to the Office of Management and 
                      Budget an impact statement that summarizes--
                                    (I) the changes made to the budget 
                                under this subparagraph; and
                                    (II) the impact of those changes on 
                                the ability of that agency to perform 
                                its other responsibilities, including 
                                any impact on specific missions or 
                                programs of the agency.
                          (iii) Congressional notification.--The head of 
                      a National Drug Control Program agency shall 
                      submit a copy of any impact statement under clause 
                      (ii) to the Senate and the House of 
                      Representatives at the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-677]]

                      time the budget for that agency is submitted to 
                      Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
                      States Code.
                    (D) Certification of budget submissions.--
                          (i) In general.--At the time a National Drug 
                      Control Program agency submits its budget request 
                      to the Office of Management and Budget, the head 
                      of the National Drug Control Program agency shall 
                      submit a copy of the budget request to the 
                      Director.
                          (ii) Certification.--The Director--
                                    (I) shall review each budget 
                                submission submitted under clause (i); 
                                and
                                    (II) based on the review under 
                                subclause (I), if the Director concludes 
                                that the budget submission of a National 
                                Drug Control Program agency does not 
                                include the funding levels and 
                                initiatives described under subparagraph 
                                (B)--
                                            (aa) may issue a written 
                                        decertification of that agency's 
                                        budget; and
                                            (bb) in the case of a 
                                        decertification issued under 
                                        item (aa), shall submit to the 
                                        Senate and the House of 
                                        Representatives a copy of--

                                              
                                              
                                            (
                                            a
                                            a
                                            a
                                            )
                                             
                                            t
                                            h
                                            e
                                             
                                            d
                                            e
                                            c
                                            e
                                            r
                                            t
                                            i
                                            f
                                            i
                                            c
                                            a
                                            t
                                            i
                                            o
                                            n
                                             
                                            i
                                            s
                                            s
                                            u
                                            e
                                            d
                                             
                                            u
                                            n
                                            d
                                            e
                                            r
                                             
                                            i
                                            t
                                            e
                                            m
                                             
                                            (
                                            a
                                            a
                                            )
                                            ;



                                              
                                              
                                            (
                                            b
                                            b
                                            b
                                            )
                                             
                                            t
                                            h
                                            e
                                             
                                            d
                                            e
                                            s
                                            c
                                            r
                                            i
                                            p
                                            t
                                            i
                                            o
                                            n
                                             
                                            m
                                            a
                                            d
                                            e
                                             
                                            u
                                            n
                                            d
                                            e
                                            r
                                             
                                            s
                                            u
                                            b
                                            p
                                            a
                                            r
                                            a
                                            g
                                            r
                                            a
                                            p
                                            h
                                             
                                            (
                                            B
                                            )
                                            ;
                                             
                                            a
                                            n
                                            d



                                              
                                              
                                            (
                                            c
                                            c
                                            c
                                            )
                                             
                                            t
                                            h
                                            e
                                             
                                            b
                                            u
                                            d
                                            g
                                            e
                                            t
                                             
                                            r
                                            e
                                            c
                                            o
                                            m
                                            m
                                            e
                                            n
                                            d
                                            a
                                            t
                                            i
                                            o
                                            n
                                            s
                                             
                                            m
                                            a
                                            d
                                            e
                                             
                                            u
                                            n
                                            d
                                            e
                                            r
                                             
                                            s
                                            u
                                            b
                                            s
                                            e
                                            c
                                            t
                                            i
                                            o
                                            n
                                             
                                            (
                                            b
                                            )
                                            (
                                            8
                                            )


            (4) Reprogramming and transfer requests.--
                    (A) In general.--No National Drug Control Program 
                agency shall submit to Congress a reprogramming or 
                transfer request with respect to any amount of 
                appropriated funds in an amount exceeding $5,000,000 
                that is included in the National Drug Control Program 
                budget unless the request has been approved by the 
                Director.
                    (B) Appeal.--The head of any National Drug Control 
                Program agency may appeal to the President any 
                disapproval by the Director of a reprogramming or 
                transfer request under this paragraph.

    (d) Powers of the Director.--In carrying out subsection (b), the 
Director may--
            (1) select, appoint, employ, and fix compensation of such 
        officers and employees of the Office as may be necessary to 
        carry out the functions of the Office under this title;
            (2) subject to subsection (e)(3), request the head of a 
        department or agency, or program of the Federal Government to 
        place department, agency, or program personnel who are engaged 
        in drug control activities on temporary detail to another 
        department, agency, or program in order to implement the 
        National Drug Control Strategy, and the head of the department 
        or agency shall comply with such a request;
            (3) use for administrative purposes, on a reimbursable 
        basis, the available services, equipment, personnel, and 
        facilities of Federal, State, and local agencies;
            (4) procure the services of experts and consultants in 
        accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
        relating to appointments in the Federal Service, at rates of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-678]]

        compensation for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent 
        of the rate of pay payable under level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5311 of title 5, United States Code;
            (5) accept and use gifts and donations of property from 
        Federal, State, and local government agencies, and from the 
        private sector, as authorized in section 703(d);
            (6) use the mails in the same manner as any other department 
        or agency of the executive branch;
            (7) monitor implementation of the National Drug Control 
        Program, including--
                    (A) conducting program and performance audits and 
                evaluations; and
                    (B) requesting assistance from the Inspector General 
                of the relevant agency in such audits and evaluations;
            (8) transfer funds made available to a National Drug Control 
        Program agency for National Drug Control Strategy programs and 
        activities to another account within such agency or to another 
        National Drug Control Program agency for National Drug Control 
        Strategy programs and activities, except that--
                    (A) the authority under this paragraph may be 
                limited in an annual appropriations Act or other 
                provision of Federal law;
                    (B) the Director may exercise the authority under 
                this paragraph only with the concurrence of the head of 
                each affected agency;
                    (C) in the case of an interagency transfer, the 
                total amount of transfers under this paragraph may not 
                exceed 3 percent of the total amount of funds made 
                available for National Drug Control Strategy programs 
                and activities to the agency from which those funds are 
                to be transferred;
                    (D) funds transferred to an agency under this 
                paragraph may only be used to increase the funding for 
                programs or activities have been authorized by Congress; 
                and
                    (E) the Director shall--
                          (i) submit to Congress, including to the 
                      Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
                      House of Representatives, the authorizing 
                      committees for the Office, and any other 
                      applicable committees of jurisdiction, a 
                      reprogramming or transfer request in advance of 
                      any transfer under this paragraph in accordance 
                      with the regulations of the affected agency or 
                      agencies; and
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Reports.>> annually submit to 
                      Congress a report describing the effect of all 
                      transfers of funds made pursuant to this paragraph 
                      or subsection (c)(4) during the 12-month period 
                      preceding the date on which the report is 
                      submitted;
            (9) issue to the head of a National Drug Control Program 
        agency a fund control notice described in subsection (f) to 
        ensure compliance with the National Drug Control Program 
        Strategy; and
            (10) participate in the drug certification process pursuant 
        to section 490 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2291j).

    (e) Personnel Detailed to Office.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-679]]

            (1) Evaluations.--Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 
        43 of title 5, United States Code, the Director shall perform 
        the evaluation of the performance of any employee detailed to 
        the Office for purposes of the applicable performance appraisal 
        system established under such chapter for any rating period, or 
        part thereof, that such employee is detailed to such office.
            (2) Compensation.--
                    (A) Bonus payments.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the Director may provide periodic 
                bonus payments to any employee detailed to the Office.
                    (B) Restrictions.--An amount paid under this 
                paragraph to an employee for any period--
                          (i) shall not be greater than 20 percent of 
                      the basic pay paid or payable to such employee for 
                      such period; and
                          (ii) shall be in addition to the basic pay of 
                      such employee.
                    (C) Aggregate amount.--The aggregate amount paid 
                during any fiscal year to an employee detailed to the 
                Office as basic pay, awards, bonuses, and other 
                compensation shall not exceed the annual rate payable at 
                the end of such fiscal year for positions at level III 
                of the Executive Schedule.
            (3) Maximum number of detailees.--The maximum number of 
        personnel who may be detailed to another department or agency 
        (including the Office) under subsection (d)(2) during any fiscal 
        year is--
                    (A) for the Department of Defense, 50; and
                    (B) for any other department or agency, 10.

    (f) Fund Control Notices.--
            (1) In general.--A fund control notice may direct that all 
        or part of an amount appropriated to the National Drug Control 
        Program agency account be obligated by--
                    (A) months, fiscal year quarters, or other time 
                periods; and
                    (B) activities, functions, projects, or object 
                classes.
            (2) Unauthorized obligation or expenditure prohibited.--An 
        officer or employee of a National Drug Control Program agency 
        shall not make or authorize an expenditure or obligation 
        contrary to a fund control notice issued by the Director.
            (3) Disciplinary action for violation.--In the case of a 
        violation of paragraph (2) by an officer or employee of a 
        National Drug Control Program agency, the head of the agency, 
        upon the request of and in consultation with the Director, may 
        subject the officer or employee to appropriate administrative 
        discipline, including, when circumstances warrant, suspension 
        from duty without pay or removal from office.

    (g) Inapplicability to Certain Programs.--The provisions of this 
section shall not apply to the National Foreign Intelligence Program, 
the Joint Military Intelligence Program and Tactical Intelligence and 
Related Activities unless the agency that carries out such program is 
designated as a National Drug Control Program agency by the President or 
jointly by the Director and the head of the agency.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-680]]

    (h) Construction.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed as 
derogating the authorities and responsibilities of the Director of 
Central Intelligence contained in sections 104 and 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 or any other law.

SEC. 705. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1704.>> COORDINATION WITH NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL 
            PROGRAM AGENCIES IN DEMAND REDUCTION, SUPPLY REDUCTION, AND 
            STATE AND LOCAL AFFAIRS.

    (a) Access to Information.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the request of the Director, the head 
        of any National Drug Control Program agency shall cooperate with 
        and provide to the Director any statistics, studies, reports, 
        and other information prepared or collected by the agency 
        concerning the responsibilities of the agency under the National 
        Drug Control Strategy that relate to--
                    (A) drug abuse control; or
                    (B) the manner in which amounts made available to 
                that agency for drug control are being used by that 
                agency.
            (2) Protection of intelligence information.--
                    (A) In general.--The authorities conferred on the 
                Office and the Director by this title shall be exercised 
                in a manner consistent with provisions of the National 
                Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et 
                seq.). <<NOTE: Regulations.>> The Director of Central 
                Intelligence shall prescribe such regulations as may be 
                necessary to protect information provided pursuant to 
                this title regarding intelligence sources and methods.
                    (B) Duties of director.--The Director of Central 
                Intelligence shall, to the maximum extent practicable in 
                accordance with subparagraph (A), render full assistance 
                and support to the Office and the Director.
            (3) Illegal drug cultivation.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall annually submit to the Director an assessment of the 
        acreage of illegal drug cultivation in the United States.

    (b) Certification of Policy Changes to Director.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the head of a 
        National Drug Control Program agency shall, unless exigent 
        circumstances require otherwise, notify the Director in writing 
        regarding any proposed change in policies relating to the 
        activities of that agency under the National Drug Control 
        Program prior to implementation of such change. The Director 
        shall promptly review such proposed change and certify to the 
        head of that agency in writing whether such change is consistent 
        with the National Drug Control Strategy.
            (2) Exception.--If prior notice of a proposed change under 
        paragraph (1) is not practicable--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Notification.>> the head of the National 
                Drug Control Program agency shall notify the Director of 
                the proposed change as soon as practicable; and
                    (B) upon such notification, the Director shall 
                review the change and certify to the head of that agency 
                in writing whether the change is consistent with the 
                National Drug Control Program.

    (c) General Services Administration.--The Administrator of General 
Services shall provide to the Director, in a reimbursable basis, such 
administrative support services as the Director may request.
    (d) Accounting of Funds Expended.--The Director shall--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-681]]

            (A) require the National Drug Control Program agencies to 
        submit to the Director not later than February 1 of each year a 
        detailed accounting of all funds expended by the agencies for 
        National Drug Control Program activities during the previous 
        fiscal year, and require such accounting to be authenticated by 
        the Inspector General for each agency prior to submission to the 
        Director; and
            (B) submit to Congress not later than April 1 of each year 
        the information submitted to the Director under subparagraph 
        (A).

SEC. 706. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1705.>> DEVELOPMENT, SUBMISSION, 
            IMPLEMENTATION, AND ASSESSMENT OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL 
            STRATEGY.

    (a) Timing, Contents, and Process for Development and Submission of 
National Drug Control Strategy.--
            (1) Timing.--Not later than February 1, 1999, the President 
        shall submit to Congress a National Drug Control Strategy, which 
        shall set forth a comprehensive plan, covering a period of not 
        more than 5 years, for reducing drug abuse and the consequences 
        of drug abuse in the United States, by limiting the availability 
        of and reducing the demand for illegal drugs.
            (2) Contents.--
                    (A) In general.--The National Drug Control Strategy 
                submitted under paragraph (1) shall include--
                          (i) comprehensive, research-based, long-range, 
                      quantifiable, goals for reducing drug abuse and 
                      the consequences of drug abuse in the United 
                      States;
                          (ii) annual, quantifiable, and measurable 
                      objectives and specific targets to accomplish 
                      long-term quantifiable goals that the Director 
                      determines may be achieved during each year of the 
                      period beginning on the date on which the National 
                      Drug Control Strategy is submitted;
                          (iii) 5-year projections for program and 
                      budget priorities; and
                          (iv) a review of international, State, local, 
                      and private sector drug control activities to 
                      ensure that the United States pursues well-
                      coordinated and effective drug control at all 
                      levels of government.
                    (B) Classified information.--Any contents of the 
                National Drug Control Strategy that involves information 
                properly classified under criteria established by an 
                Executive order shall be presented to Congress 
                separately from the rest of the National Drug Control 
                Strategy.
            (3) Process for development and submission.--
                    (A) Consultation.--In developing and effectively 
                implementing the National Drug Control Strategy, the 
                Director--
                          (i) shall consult with--
                                    (I) the heads of the National Drug 
                                Control Program agencies;
                                    (II) Congress;
                                    (III) State and local officials;
                                    (IV) private citizens and 
                                organizations with experience and 
                                expertise in demand reduction;
                                    (V) private citizens and 
                                organizations with experience and 
                                expertise in supply reduction; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-682]]

                                    (VI) appropriate representatives of 
                                foreign governments;
                          (ii) with the concurrence of the Attorney 
                      General, may require the El Paso Intelligence 
                      Center to undertake specific tasks or projects to 
                      implement the National Drug Control Strategy; and
                          (iii) with the concurrence of the Director of 
                      Central Intelligence and the Attorney General, may 
                      request that the National Drug Intelligence Center 
                      undertake specific tasks or projects to implement 
                      the National Drug Control Strategy.
                    (B) Inclusion in strategy.--The National Drug 
                Control Strategy under this subsection, and each report 
                submitted under subsection (b), shall include a list of 
                each entity consulted under subparagraph (A)(i).
            (4) Specific targets.--The targets in the National Drug 
        Control Strategy shall include the following:
                    (A) Reduction of unlawful drug use to 3 percent of 
                the population of the United States or less by December 
                31, 2003 (as measured in terms of overall illicit drug 
                use during the past 30 days by the National Household 
                Survey), and achievement of at least 20 percent of such 
                reduction during each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
                2003.
                    (B) Reduction of adolescent unlawful drug use (as 
                measured in terms of illicit drug use during the past 30 
                days by the Monitoring the Future Survey of the 
                University of Michigan or the National PRIDE Survey 
                conducted by the National Parents' Resource Institute 
                for Drug Education) to 3 percent of the adolescent 
                population of the United States or less by December 31, 
                2003, and achievement of at least 20 percent of such 
                reduction during each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
                2003.
                    (C) Reduction of the availability of cocaine, 
                heroin, marijuana, and methamphetamine in the United 
                States by 80 percent by December 31, 2003.
                    (D) Reduction of the respective nationwide average 
                street purity levels for cocaine, heroin, marijuana, and 
                methamphetamine (as estimated by the interagency drug 
                flows assessment led by the Office of National Drug 
                Control Policy, and based on statistics collected by the 
                Drug Enforcement Administration and other National Drug 
                Control Program agencies identified as relevant by the 
                Director) by 60 percent by December 31, 2003, and 
                achievement of at least 20 percent of each such 
                reduction during each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
                2003.
                    (E) Reduction of drug-related crime in the United 
                States by 50 percent by December 31, 2003, and 
                achievement of at least 20 percent of such reduction 
                during each of 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, 
                including--
                          (i) reduction of State and Federal unlawful 
                      drug trafficking and distribution;
                          (ii) reduction of State and Federal crimes 
                      committed by persons under the influence of 
                      unlawful drugs;
                          (iii) reduction of State and Federal crimes 
                      committed for the purpose of obtaining unlawful 
                      drugs or obtaining property that is intended to be 
                      used for the purchase of unlawful drugs; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-683]]

                          (iv) reduction of drug-related emergency room 
                      incidents in the United States (as measured by 
                      data of the Drug Abuse Warning Network on illicit 
                      drug abuse), including incidents involving gunshot 
                      wounds and automobile accidents in which illicit 
                      drugs are identified in the bloodstream of the 
                      victim, by 50 percent by December 31, 2003.
            (5) Further reductions in drug use, availability, and 
        crime.--Following the submission of a National Drug Control 
        Strategy under this section to achieve the specific targets 
        described in paragraph (4), the Director may formulate a 
        strategy for additional reductions in drug use and availability 
        and drug-related crime beyond the 5-year period covered by the 
        National Drug Control Strategy that has been submitted.

    (b) Annual Strategy Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 1999, and on 
        February 1 of each year thereafter, the President shall submit 
        to Congress a report on the progress in implementing the 
        Strategy under subsection (a), which shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the Federal effectiveness in 
                achieving the National Drug Control Strategy goals and 
                objectives using the performance measurement system 
                described in subsection (c), including--
                          (i) an assessment of drug use and availability 
                      in the United States; and
                          (ii) an estimate of the effectiveness of 
                      interdiction, treatment, prevention, law 
                      enforcement, and international programs under the 
                      National Drug Control Strategy in effect during 
                      the preceding year, or in effect as of the date on 
                      which the report is submitted;
                    (B) any modifications of the National Drug Control 
                Strategy or the performance measurement system described 
                in subsection (c);
                    (C) an assessment of the manner in which the budget 
                proposal submitted under section 704(c) is intended to 
                implement the National Drug Control Strategy and whether 
                the funding levels contained in such proposal are 
                sufficient to implement such Strategy;
                    (D) measurable data evaluating the success or 
                failure in achieving the annual measurable objectives 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii);
                    (E) an assessment of current drug use (including 
                inhalants) and availability, impact of drug use, and 
                treatment availability, which assessment shall include--
                          (i) estimates of drug prevalence and frequency 
                      of use as measured by national, State, and local 
                      surveys of illicit drug use and by other special 
                      studies of--
                                    (I) casual and chronic drug use;
                                    (II) high-risk populations, 
                                including school dropouts, the homeless 
                                and transient, arrestees, parolees, 
                                probationers, and juvenile delinquents; 
                                and
                                    (III) drug use in the workplace and 
                                the productivity lost by such use;
                          (ii) an assessment of the reduction of drug 
                      availability against an ascertained baseline, as 
                      measured by--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-684]]

                                    (I) the quantities of cocaine, 
                                heroin, marijuana, methamphetamine, and 
                                other drugs available for consumption in 
                                the United States;
                                    (II) the amount of marijuana, 
                                cocaine, heroin, and precursor chemicals 
                                entering the United States;
                                    (III) the number of hectares of 
                                marijuana, poppy, and coca cultivated 
                                and destroyed domestically and in other 
                                countries;
                                    (IV) the number of metric tons of 
                                marijuana, heroin, cocaine, and 
                                methamphetamine seized;
                                    (V) the number of cocaine and 
                                methamphetamine processing laboratories 
                                destroyed domestically and in other 
                                countries;
                                    (VI) changes in the price and purity 
                                of heroin and cocaine, changes in the 
                                price of methamphetamine, and changes in 
                                tetrahydrocannabinol level of marijuana;
                                    (VII) the amount and type of 
                                controlled substances diverted from 
                                legitimate retail and wholesale sources; 
                                and
                                    (VIII) the effectiveness of Federal 
                                technology programs at improving drug 
                                detection capabilities in interdiction, 
                                and at United States ports of entry;
                          (iii) an assessment of the reduction of the 
                      consequences of drug use and availability, which 
                      shall include estimation of--
                                    (I) the burden drug users placed on 
                                hospital emergency departments in the 
                                United States, such as the quantity of 
                                drug-related services provided;
                                    (II) the annual national health care 
                                costs of drug use, including costs 
                                associated with people becoming infected 
                                with the human immunodeficiency virus 
                                and other infectious diseases as a 
                                result of drug use;
                                    (III) the extent of drug-related 
                                crime and criminal activity; and
                                    (IV) the contribution of drugs to 
                                the underground economy, as measured by 
                                the retail value of drugs sold in the 
                                United States;
                          (iv) a determination of the status of drug 
                      treatment in the United States, by assessing--
                                    (I) public and private treatment 
                                capacity within each State, including 
                                information on the treatment capacity 
                                available in relation to the capacity 
                                actually used;
                                    (II) the extent, within each State, 
                                to which treatment is available;
                                    (III) the number of drug users the 
                                Director estimates could benefit from 
                                treatment; and
                                    (IV) the specific factors that 
                                restrict the availability of treatment 
                                services to those seeking it and 
                                proposed administrative or legislative 
                                remedies to make treatment available to 
                                those individuals; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-685]]

                          (v) a review of the research agenda of the 
                      Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center to 
                      reduce the availability and abuse of drugs; and
                    (F) an assessment of private sector initiatives and 
                cooperative efforts between the Federal Government and 
                State and local governments for drug control.
            (2) Submission of revised strategy.--The President may 
        submit to Congress a revised National Drug Control Strategy that 
        meets the requirements of this section--
                    (A) at any time, upon a determination by the 
                President, in consultation with the Director, that the 
                National Drug Control Strategy in effect is not 
                sufficiently effective; and
                    (B) if a new President or Director takes office.
            (3) 1999 strategy report.--With respect to the Strategy 
        report required to be submitted by this subsection on February 
        1, 1999, the President shall prepare the report using such 
        information as is available for the period covered by the 
        report.

    (c) Performance Measurement System.--
            (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
                    (A) the targets described in subsection (a) are 
                important to the reduction of overall drug use in the 
                United States;
                    (B) the President should seek to achieve those 
                targets during the 5 years covered by the National Drug 
                Control Strategy required to be submitted under 
                subsection (a);
                    (C) the purpose of such targets and the annual 
                reports to Congress on the progress towards achieving 
                the targets is to allow for the annual restructuring of 
                appropriations by the Appropriations Committees and 
                authorizing committees of jurisdiction of Congress to 
                meet the goals described in this Act;
                    (D) the performance measurement system developed by 
                the Director described in this subsection is central to 
                the National Drug Control Program targets, programs, and 
                budget;
                    (E) the Congress strongly endorses the performance 
                measurement system for establishing clear outcomes for 
                reducing drug use nationwide during the next five years, 
                and the linkage of this system to all agency drug 
                control programs and budgets receiving funds scored as 
                drug control agency funding.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than February 1, 
        1999, the Director shall submit to Congress a description of the 
        national drug control performance measurement system, designed 
        in consultation with affected National Drug Control Program 
        agencies, that--
                    (A) develops performance objectives, measures, and 
                targets for each National Drug Control Strategy goal and 
                objective;
                    (B) revises performance objectives, measures, and 
                targets, to conform with National Drug Control Program 
                Agency budgets;
                    (C) identifies major programs and activities of the 
                National Drug Control Program agencies that support the 
                goals and objectives of the National Drug Control 
                Strategy;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-686]]

                    (D) evaluates in detail the implementation by each 
                National Drug Control Program agency of program 
                activities supporting the National Drug Control 
                Strategy;
                    (E) monitors consistency between the drug-related 
                goals and objectives of the National Drug Control 
                Program agencies and
ensures that drug control agency goals and budgets support and are fully 
consistent with the National Drug Control Strategy; and
                    (F) coordinates the development and implementation 
                of national drug control data collection and reporting 
                systems to support policy formulation and performance 
                measurement, including an assessment of--
                          (i) the quality of current drug use 
                      measurement instruments and techniques to measure 
                      supply reduction and demand reduction activities;
                          (ii) the adequacy of the coverage of existing 
                      national drug use measurement instruments and 
                      techniques to measure the casual drug user 
                      population and groups that are at risk for drug 
                      use; and
                          (iii) the actions the Director shall take to 
                      correct any deficiencies and limitations 
                      identified pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
                      of subsection (b)(4).
            (3) Modifications.--A description of any modifications made 
        during the preceding year to the national drug control 
        performance measurement system described in paragraph (2) shall 
        be included in each report submitted under subsection (b).

SEC. 707. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1706.>> HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS 
            PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Office a program to 
be known as the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.
    (b) Designation.--The Director, upon consultation with the Attorney 
General, the Secretary of the Treasury, heads of the National Drug 
Control Program agencies, and the Governor of each applicable State, may 
designate any specified area of the United States as a high intensity 
drug trafficking area. After making such a designation and in order to 
provide Federal assistance to the area so designated, the Director may--
            (1) obligate such sums as appropriated for the High 
        Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program;
            (2) direct the temporary reassignment of Federal personnel 
        to such area, subject to the approval of the head of the 
        department or agency that employs such personnel;
            (3) take any other action authorized under section 704 to 
        provide increased Federal assistance to those areas;
            (4) coordinate activities under this subsection 
        (specifically administrative, recordkeeping, and funds 
        management activities) with State and local officials.

    (c) Factors for Consideration.--In considering whether to designate 
an area under this section as a high intensity drug trafficking area, 
the Director shall consider, in addition to such other criteria as the 
Director considers to be appropriate, the extent to which--
            (1) the area is a center of illegal drug production, 
        manufacturing, importation, or distribution;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-687]]

            (2) State and local law enforcement agencies have committed 
        resources to respond to the drug trafficking problem in the 
        area, thereby indicating a determination to respond aggressively 
        to the problem;
            (3) drug-related activities in the area are having a harmful 
        impact in other areas of the country; and
            (4) a significant increase in allocation of Federal 
        resources is necessary to respond adequately to drug-related 
        activities in the area.

    (d) Use of Funds.--The Director shall ensure that no Federal funds 
appropriated for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Program are 
expended for the establishment or expansion of drug treatment programs.

SEC. 708. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1707.>> COUNTER-DRUG TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT 
            CENTER.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Office the 
Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center (referred to in this section 
as the ``Center''). The Center shall operate under the authority of the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy and shall serve as the central 
counter-drug technology research and development organization of the 
United States Government.
    (b) Director of Technology.--There shall be at the head of the 
Center the Director of Technology, who shall be appointed by the 
Director of National Drug Control Policy from among individuals 
qualified and distinguished in the area of science, medicine, 
engineering, or technology.
    (c) Additional Responsibilities of the Director of National Drug 
Control Policy.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, acting through the Director 
        of Technology shall--
                    (A) identify and define the short-, medium-, and 
                long-term scientific and technological needs of Federal, 
                State, and local drug supply reduction agencies, 
                including--
                          (i) advanced surveillance, tracking, and radar 
                      imaging;
                          (ii) electronic support measures;
                          (iii) communications;
                          (iv) data fusion, advanced computer systems, 
                      and artificial intelligence; and
                          (v) chemical, biological, radiological 
                      (including neutron, electron, and graviton), and 
                      other means of detection;
                    (B) identify demand reduction basic and applied 
                research needs and initiatives, in consultation with 
                affected National Drug Control Program agencies, 
                including--
                          (i) improving treatment through 
                      neuroscientific advances;
                          (ii) improving the transfer of biomedical 
                      research to the clinical setting; and
                          (iii) in consultation with the National 
                      Institute on Drug Abuse, and through interagency 
                      agreements or grants, examining addiction and 
                      rehabilitation research and the application of 
                      technology to expanding the effectiveness or 
                      availability of drug treatment;
                    (C) make a priority ranking of such needs identified 
                in subparagraphs (A) and (B) according to fiscal and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-688]]

                technological feasibility, as part of a National 
                Counter-Drug Enforcement Research and Development 
                Program;
                    (D) oversee and coordinate counter-drug technology 
                initiatives with related activities of other Federal 
                civilian and military departments;
                    (E) provide support to the development and 
                implementation of the national drug control performance 
                measurement system; and
                    (F) pursuant to the authority of the Director of 
                National Drug Control Policy under section 704, submit 
                requests to Congress for the reprogramming or transfer 
                of funds appropriated for counter-drug technology 
                research and development.
            (2) Limitation on authority.--The authority granted to the 
        Director under this subsection shall not extend to the award of 
        contracts, management of individual projects, or other 
        operational activities.

    (d) Assistance and Support to Office of National Drug Control 
Policy.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall, to the maximum extent practicable, render assistance and 
support to the Office and to the Director in the conduct of counter-drug 
technology assessment.

SEC. 709. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1708.>> PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON COUNTER-
            NARCOTICS.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a council to be known as 
the President's Council on Counter-Narcotics (referred to in this 
section as the ``Council'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Council shall 
        be composed of 18 members, of whom--
                    (A) 1 shall be the President, who shall serve as 
                Chairman of the Council;
                    (B) 1 shall be the Vice President;
                    (C) 1 shall be the Secretary of State;
                    (D) 1 shall be the Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (E) 1 shall be the Secretary of Defense;
                    (F) 1 shall be the Attorney General;
                    (G) 1 shall be the Secretary of Transportation;
                    (H) 1 shall be the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services;
                    (I) 1 shall be the Secretary of Education;
                    (J) 1 shall be the Representative of the United 
                States of America to the United Nations;
                    (K) 1 shall be the Director of the Office of 
                Management and Budget;
                    (L) 1 shall be the Chief of Staff to the President;
                    (M) 1 shall be the Director of the Office, who shall 
                serve as the Executive Director of the Council;
                    (N) 1 shall be the Director of Central Intelligence;
                    (O) 1 shall be the Assistant to the President for 
                National Security Affairs;
                    (P) 1 shall be the Counsel to the President;
                    (Q) 1 shall be the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
                Staff; and
                    (R) 1 shall be the National Security Adviser to the 
                Vice President.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-689]]

            (2) Additional members.--The President may, in the 
        discretion of the President, appoint additional members to the 
        Council.

    (c) Functions.--The Council shall advise and assist the President 
in--
            (1) providing direction and oversight for the national drug 
        control strategy, including relating drug control policy to 
        other national security interests and establishing priorities; 
        and
            (2) ensuring coordination among departments and agencies of 
        the Federal Government concerning implementation of the National 
        Drug Control Strategy.

    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Council may utilize established or ad 
        hoc committees, task forces, or interagency groups chaired by 
        the Director (or a representative of the Director) in carrying 
        out the functions of the Council under this section.
            (2) Staff.--The staff of the Office, in coordination with 
        the staffs of the Vice President and the Assistant to the 
        President for National Security Affairs, shall act as staff for 
        the Council.
            (3) Cooperation from other agencies.--Each department and 
        agency of the executive branch shall--
                    (A) cooperate with the Council in carrying out the 
                functions of the Council under this section; and
                    (B) provide such assistance, information, and advice 
                as the Council may request, to the extent permitted by 
                law.

SEC. 710. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1709.>> PARENTS ADVISORY COUNCIL ON YOUTH DRUG 
            ABUSE.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a Council to be 
        known as the Parents Advisory Council on Youth Drug Abuse 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Council'').
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of 
                16 members, of whom--
                          (i) 4 shall be appointed by the President, 
                      each of whom shall be a parent or guardian of a 
                      child who is not less than 6 and not more than 18 
                      years of age as of the date on which the 
                      appointment is made;
                          (ii) 4 shall be appointed by the Majority 
                      Leader of the Senate, 3 of whom shall be a parent 
                      or guardian of a child who is not less than 6 and 
                      not more than 18 years of age as of the date on 
                      which the appointment is made;
                          (iii) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                      Leader of the Senate, each of whom shall be a 
                      parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 
                      6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date 
                      on which the appointment is made;
                          (iv) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of 
                      the House of Representatives, 3 of whom shall be a 
                      parent or guardian of a child who is not less than 
                      6 and not more than 18 years of age as of the date 
                      on which the appointment is made; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-690]]

                          (v) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                      Leader of the House of Representatives, each of 
                      whom shall be a parent or guardian of a child who 
                      is not less than 6 and not more than 18 years of 
                      age as of the date on which the appointment is 
                      made.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                          (i) In general.--Each member of the Council 
                      shall be an individual from the private sector 
                      with a demonstrated interest and expertise in 
                      research, education, treatment, or prevention 
                      activities related to youth drug abuse.
                          (ii) Representatives of nonprofit 
                      organizations.--Not less than 1 member appointed 
                      under each of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph 
                      (2)(A) shall be a representative of a nonprofit 
                      organization focused on involving parents in 
                      antidrug education and prevention.
                    (C) Date.--The appointments of the initial members 
                of the Council shall be made not later than 60 days 
                after the date of enactment of this section.
                    (D) Executive director.--The Director shall appoint 
                the Executive Director of the Council, who shall be an 
                employee of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
            (3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--
                    (A) Period of appointment.--Each member of the 
                Council shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except 
                that, of the initial members of the Council--
                          (i) 1 member appointed under each of clauses 
                      (i) through (v) of paragraph (2)(A) shall be 
                      appointed for a term of 1 year; and
                          (ii) 1 member appointed under each of clauses 
                      (i) through (v) of paragraph (2)(A) shall be 
                      appointed for a term of 2 years.
                    (B) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Council shall not 
                affect its powers, provided that a quorum is present, 
                but shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
                appointment. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy 
                occurring before the expiration of the term for which 
                the member's predecessor was appointed shall be 
                appointed only for the remainder of that term.
                    (C) Appointment of successor.--To the extent 
                necessary to prevent a vacancy in the membership of the 
                Council, a member of the Council may serve for not more 
                than 6 months after the expiration of the term of that 
                member, if the successor of that member has not been 
                appointed.
            (4) Initial meeting.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        on which all initial members of the Council have been appointed, 
        the Council shall hold its first meeting.
            (5) Meetings.--The Council shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson.
            (6) Quorum.--Nine members of the Council shall constitute a 
        quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
            (7) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                    (A) In general.--The members of the Council shall 
                select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the 
                members of the Council.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-691]]

                    (B) Duties of chairperson.--The Chairperson of the 
                Council shall assign committee duties relating to the 
                Council and direct the Executive Director to convene 
                hearings and conduct other necessary business of the 
                Council.
                    (C) Duties of vice chairperson.--If the Chairperson 
                of the Council is unable to serve, the Vice Chairperson 
                shall serve as the Chairperson.

    (b) Duties of the Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Council--
                    (A) shall advise the Director on drug prevention, 
                education, and treatment and assist the Deputy Director 
                of Demand Reduction in the responsibilities for the 
                coordination of the demand reduction programs of the 
                Federal Government and the analysis and consideration of 
                prevention and treatment alternatives; and
                    (B) may issue reports and recommendations on drug 
                prevention, education, and treatment, in addition to the 
                reports detailed in paragraph (2), as the Council 
                considers appropriate.
            (2) Submission of reports.--Any report or recommendation 
        issued by the Council shall be submitted to the Director and 
        subsequently to Congress.
            (3) Advice on the national drug control strategy.--Not later 
        than December 1, 1999, and on December 1 of each year 
        thereafter, the Council shall submit to the Director an annual 
        report containing drug control strategy recommendations on drug 
        prevention, education, and treatment. The Director may include 
        any recommendations submitted under this paragraph in the report 
        submitted by the Director under section 706(b).

    (c) Expenses.--The members of the Council shall be allowed travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized 
for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of 
business in the performance of services for the Council.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Council such sums as may be necessary carry out this 
section.

SEC. 711. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1710.>> DRUG INTERDICTION.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Federal drug control 
agency'' means--
            (1) the Office of National Drug Control Policy;
            (2) the Department of Defense;
            (3) the Drug Enforcement Administration;
            (4) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
            (5) the Immigration and Naturalization Service;
            (6) the United States Coast Guard;
            (7) the United States Customs Service; and
            (8) any other department or agency of the Federal Government 
        that the Director determines to be relevant.

    (b) Report.--In order to assist Congress in determining the 
personnel, equipment, funding, and other resources that would be 
required by Federal drug control agencies in order to achieve a level of 
interdiction success at or above the highest level achieved before the 
date of enactment of this title, not later than 90 days

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-692]]

after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to 
Congress and to each Federal drug control program agency a report, which 
shall include--
            (1) with respect to the southern and western border regions 
        of the United States (including the Pacific coast, the border 
        with Mexico, the Gulf of Mexico coast, and other ports of entry) 
        and in overall totals, data relating to--
                    (A) the amount of marijuana, heroin, 
                methamphetamine, and cocaine--
                          (i) seized during the year of highest recorded 
                      seizures for each drug in each region and during 
                      the year of highest recorded overall seizures; and
                          (ii) disrupted during the year of highest 
                      recorded disruptions for each drug in each region 
                      and during the year of highest recorded overall 
                      seizures; and
                    (B) the number of persons arrested for violations of 
                section 1010(a) of the Controlled Substances Import and 
                Export Act (21 U.S.C. 960(a)) and related offenses 
                during the year of the highest number of arrests on 
                record for each region and during the year of highest 
                recorded overall arrests;
            (2) the price of cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine, and 
        marijuana during the year of highest price on record during the 
        preceding 10-year period, adjusted for purity where possible; 
        and
            (3) a description of the personnel, equipment, funding, and 
        other resources of the Federal drug control agency devoted to 
        drug interdiction and securing the borders of the United States 
        against drug trafficking for each of the years identified in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for each Federal drug control agency.

    (c) Budget Process.--
            (1) Information to director.--Based on the report submitted 
        under subsection (b), each Federal drug control agency shall 
        submit to the Director, at the same time as each annual drug 
        control budget request is submitted by the Federal drug control 
        agency to the Director under section 704(c)(1), a description of 
        the specific personnel, equipment, funding, and other resources 
        that would be required for the Federal drug control agency to 
        meet or exceed the highest level of interdiction success for 
        that agency identified in the report submitted under subsection 
        (b).
            (2) Information to congress.--The Director shall include 
        each submission under paragraph (1) in each annual consolidated 
        National Drug Control Program budget proposal submitted by the 
        Director to Congress under section 704(c)(2), which submission 
        shall be accompanied by a description of any additional 
        resources that would be required by the Federal drug control 
        agencies to meet the highest level of interdiction success 
        identified in the report submitted under subsection (b).

SEC. 712. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FORFEITURE FUND.

    Section 6073 of the Asset Forfeiture Amendments Act of 1988 (21 
U.S.C. 1509) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 524(c)(9)'' and inserting 
                ``section 524(c)(8)''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-693]]

                    (B) by striking ``section 9307(g)'' and inserting 
                ``section 9703(g)''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``strategy'' and 
        inserting ``Strategy''.

SEC. 713. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Title 5, United States Code.--Chapter 53 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 5312, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Director of National Drug Control Policy.'';
            (2) in section 5313, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Deputy Director of National Drug Control Policy.''; and
            (3) in section 5314, by adding at the end the following:
            ``Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy.
            ``Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy.
            ``Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, Office of 
        National Drug Control Policy.''.

    (b) National Security Act of 1947.--Section 101 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 402) is amended by redesignating 
subsection (f) as subsection (g) and inserting after subsection (e) the 
following:
    ``(f) The Director of National Drug Control Policy may, in the role 
of the Director as principal adviser to the National Security Council on 
national drug control policy, and subject to the direction of the 
President, attend and participate in meetings of the National Security 
Council.''.
    (c) Submission of National Drug Control Program Budget With Annual 
Budget Request of President.--Section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (25) the following:
            ``(26) a separate statement of the amount of appropriations 
        requested for the Office of National Drug Control Policy and 
        each program of the National Drug Control Program.''.

SEC. 714. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1711.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title, to 
remain available until expended, such sums as may be necessary for each 
of fiscal years 1999 through 2003.

SEC. 715. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1712.>> TERMINATION OF OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG 
            CONTROL POLICY.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), effective on 
September 30, 2003, this title and the amendments made by this title are 
repealed.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) does not apply to section 713 or the 
amendments made by that section.

   TITLE <<NOTE: Western Hemisphere Drug Elimination Act. 21 USC 801 
note.>> VIII--WESTERN HEMISPHERE DRUG ELIMINATION

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Western 
Hemisphere Drug Elimination Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this title is as 
follows:

Sec. 801. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 802. Findings and statement of policy.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-694]]

        Subtitle A--Enhanced Source and Transit Country Coverage

Sec. 811. Expansion of radar coverage and operation in source and 
           transit countries.
Sec. 812. Expansion of Coast Guard drug interdiction.
Sec. 813. Expansion of aircraft coverage and operation in source and 
           transit countries.

  Subtitle B--Enhanced Eradication and Interdiction Strategy in Source 
                                Countries

Sec. 821. Additional eradication resources for Colombia.
Sec. 822. Additional eradication resources for Peru.
Sec. 823. Additional eradication resources for Bolivia.
Sec. 824. Miscellaneous additional eradication resources.
Sec. 825. Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs.

Subtitle C--Enhanced Alternative Crop Development Support in Source Zone

Sec. 831. Alternative crop development support.
Sec. 832. Authorization of appropriations for Agricultural Research 
           Service counterdrug research and development activities.
Sec. 833. Master plan for herbicides to control narcotic crops.
Sec. 834. Authorization of use of environmentally-approved herbicides to 
           eliminate illicit narcotics crops.

       Subtitle D--Enhanced International Law Enforcement Training

Sec. 841. Enhanced international law enforcement academy training.
Sec. 842. Enhanced United States drug enforcement international 
           training.
Sec. 843. Provision of nonlethal equipment to foreign law enforcement 
           organizations for cooperative illicit narcotics control 
           activities.

   Subtitle E--Enhanced Drug Transit and Source Zone Law Enforcement 
                        Operations and Equipment

Sec. 851. Increased funding for operations and equipment; report.
Sec. 852. Funding for computer software and hardware to facilitate 
           direct communication between drug enforcement agencies.
Sec. 853. Sense of Congress regarding priority of drug interdiction and 
           counterdrug activities.

                 Subtitle F--Relationship to Other Laws

Sec. 861. Authorizations of appropriations.

            Subtitle G--Trafficking in Controlled Substances

Sec. 871. Short title.
Sec. 872. Limitation.

SEC. 802. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Teenage drug use in the United States has doubled since 
        1993.
            (2) The drug crisis facing the United States is a top 
        national security threat.
            (3) The spread of illicit drugs through United States 
        borders cannot be halted without an effective drug interdiction 
        strategy.
            (4) Effective drug interdiction efforts have been shown to 
        limit the availability of illicit narcotics, drive up the street 
        price, support demand reduction efforts, and decrease overall 
        drug trafficking and use.
            (5) A prerequisite for reducing youth drug use is increasing 
        the price of drugs. To increase price substantially, at least 60 
        percent of drugs must be interdicted.
            (6) In 1987, the national drug control budget maintained a 
        significant balance between demand and supply reduction efforts, 
        illustrated as follows:
                    (A) 29 percent of the total drug control budget 
                expenditures for demand reduction programs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-695]]

                    (B) 38 percent of the total drug control budget 
                expenditures for domestic law enforcement.
                    (C) 33 percent of the total drug control budget 
                expenditures for international drug interdiction 
                efforts.
            (7) In the late 1980's and early 1990's, counternarcotic 
        efforts were successful, specifically in protecting the borders 
        of the United States from penetration by illegal narcotics 
        through increased seizures by the United States Coast Guard and 
        other agencies, including a 302 percent increase in pounds of 
        cocaine seized between 1987 and 1991.
            (8) Limiting the availability of narcotics to drug 
        traffickers in the United States had a promising effect as 
        illustrated by the decline of illicit drug use between 1988 and 
        1991, through a--
                    (A) 13 percent reduction in total drug use;
                    (B) 35 percent drop in cocaine use; and
                    (C) 16 percent decrease in marijuana use.
            (9) In 1993, drug interdiction efforts in the transit zones 
        were reduced due to an imbalance in the national drug control 
        strategy. This trend has continued through 1995 as shown by the 
        following figures:
                    (A) 35 percent for demand reduction programs.
                    (B) 53 percent for domestic law enforcement.
                    (C) 12 percent for international drug interdiction 
                efforts.
            (10) Supply reduction efforts became a lower priority for 
        the Administration and the seizures by the United States Coast 
        Guard and other agencies decreased as shown by a 68 percent 
        decrease in the pounds of cocaine seized between 1991 and 1996.
            (11) Reductions in funding for comprehensive interdiction 
        operations like OPERATION GATEWAY and OPERATION STEELWEB, 
        initiatives that encompassed all areas of interdiction and 
        attempted to disrupt the operating methods of drug smugglers 
        along the entire United States border, have created unprotected 
        United States border areas which smugglers exploit to move their 
        product into the United States.
            (12) The result of this new imbalance in the national drug 
        control strategy caused the drug situation in the United States 
        to become a crisis with serious consequences including--
                    (A) doubling of drug-abuse-related arrests for 
                minors between 1992 and 1996;
                    (B) 70 percent increase in overall drug use among 
                children aged 12 to 17;
                    (C) 80 percent increase in drug use for graduating 
                seniors since 1992;
                    (D) a sharp drop in the price of 1 pure gram of 
                heroin from $1,647 in 1992 to $966 in February 1996; and
                    (E) a reduction in the street price of 1 gram of 
                cocaine from $123 to $104 between 1993 and 1994.
            (13) The percentage change in drug use since 1992, among 
        graduating high school students who used drugs in the past 12 
        months, has substantially increased--marijuana use is up 80 
        percent, cocaine use is up 80 percent, and heroin use is up 100 
        percent.
            (14) The Department of Defense has been called upon to 
        support counter-drug efforts of Federal law enforcement

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-696]]

        agencies that are carried out in source countries and through 
        transit zone interdiction, but in recent years Department of 
        Defense assets critical to those counter-drug activities have 
        been consistently diverted to missions that the Secretary of 
        Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff consider a 
        higher priority.
            (15) The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff, through the Department of Defense policy 
        referred to as the Global Military Force Policy, has established 
        the priorities for the allocation of military assets in the 
        following order: (1) war; (2) military operations other than war 
        that might involve contact with hostile forces (such as 
        peacekeeping operations and noncombatant evacuations); (3) 
        exercises and training; and (4) operational tasking other than 
        those involving hostilities (including counter-drug activities 
        and humanitarian assistance).
            (16) Use of Department of Defense assets is critical to the 
        success of efforts to stem the flow of illegal drugs from source 
        countries and through transit zones to the United States.
            (17) The placement of counter-drug activities in the fourth 
        and last priority of the Global Military Force Policy list of 
        priorities for the allocation of military assets has resulted in 
        a serious deficiency in assets vital to the success of source 
        country and transit zone efforts to stop the flow of illegal 
        drugs into the United States.
            (18) At present the United States faces few, if any, threats 
        from abroad greater than the threat posed to the Nation's youth 
        by illegal and dangerous drugs.
            (19) The conduct of counter-drug activities has the 
        potential for contact with hostile forces.
            (20) The Department of Defense counter-drug activities 
        mission should be near the top, not among the last, of the 
        priorities for the allocation of Department of Defense assets 
        after the first priority for those assets for the war-fighting 
        mission of the Department of Defense.

    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to--
            (1) reduce the supply of drugs and drug use through an 
        enhanced drug interdiction effort in the major drug transit 
        countries, as well support a comprehensive supply country 
        eradication and crop substitution program, because a commitment 
        of increased resources in international drug interdiction 
        efforts will create a balanced national drug control strategy 
        among demand reduction, law enforcement, and international drug 
        interdiction efforts; and
            (2) develop and establish comprehensive drug interdiction 
        and drug eradication strategies, and dedicate the required 
        resources, to achieve the goal of reducing the flow of illegal 
        drugs into the United States by 80 percent by as early as 
        January 1, 2003.

        Subtitle A--Enhanced Source and Transit Country Coverage

SEC. 811. EXPANSION OF RADAR COVERAGE AND OPERATION IN SOURCE AND 
            TRANSIT COUNTRIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of the Treasury for fiscal

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-697]]

years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the enhancement of radar coverage in drug 
source and transit countries in the total amount of $14,300,000 which 
shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For restoration of radar, and operation and maintenance 
        of radar, in the Bahamas.
            (2) For operation and maintenance of ground-based radar at 
        Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba.

    (b) Report.--Not later than January 31, 1999, the Secretary of 
Defense, in conjunction with the Director of Central Intelligence, shall 
submit to the Committee on National Security, the Committee on 
International Relations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed 
Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee 
on Intelligence of the Senate a report examining the options available 
to the United States for improving Relocatable Over the Horizon (ROTHR) 
capability to provide enhanced radar coverage of narcotics source zone 
countries in South America and transit zones in the Eastern Pacific. The 
report shall include--
            (1) a discussion of the need and costs associated with the 
        establishment of a proposed fourth ROTHR site located in the 
        source or transit zones; and
            (2) an assessment of the intelligence specific issues raised 
        if such a ROTHR facility were to be established in conjunction 
        with a foreign government.

SEC. 812. EXPANSION OF COAST GUARD DRUG INTERDICTION.

    (a) Operating Expenses.--For operating expenses of the Coast Guard 
associated with expansion of drug interdiction activities around Puerto 
Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, and other transit zone areas of 
operation, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $151,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 
2001. Such amounts shall include (but are not limited to) amounts for 
the following:
            (1) For deployment of intelligent acoustic detection buoys 
        in the Florida Straits and Bahamas.
            (2) For a nonlethal technology program to enhance 
        countermeasures against the threat of transportation of drugs by 
        so-called Go-Fast boats.

    (b) Acquisition, Construction, and Improvement.--
            (1) In general.--For acquisition, construction, and 
        improvement of facilities and equipment to be used for expansion 
        of Coast Guard drug interdiction activities, there is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for fiscal 
        year 1999 the total amount of $630,300,000 which shall be 
        available for the following purposes:
                    (A) For maritime patrol aircraft sensors.
                    (B) For acquisition of deployable pursuit boats.
                    (C) For the acquisition and construction of up to 15 
                United States Coast Guard Coastal Patrol Boats.
                    (D) For--
                          (i) the reactivation of up to 3 United States 
                      Coast Guard HU-25 Falcon jets;
                          (ii) the procurement of up to 3 C-37A 
                      aircraft; or
                          (iii) the procurement of up to 3 C-20H 
                      aircraft.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-698]]

                    (E) For acquisition of installed or deployable 
                electronic sensors and communications systems for Coast 
                Guard Cutters.
                    (F) For acquisition and construction of facilities 
                and equipment to support regional and international law 
                enforcement training and support in Puerto Rico, the 
                United States Virgin Islands, and the Caribbean Basin.
                    (G) For acquisition or conversion of maritime patrol 
                aircraft.
                    (H) For acquisition or conversion of up to 2 vessels 
                to be used as Coast Guard Medium or High Endurance 
                Cutters.
                    (I) For acquisition or conversion of up to 2 vessels 
                to be used as Coast Guard Cutters as support, command, 
                and control platforms for drug interdiction operations.
                    (J) For acquisition of up to 6 Coast Guard Medium 
                Endurance Cutters.
            (2) Continued availability.--Amounts appropriated under this 
        subsection may remain available until expended.

    (c) Requirement To Accept Patrol Craft From Department of Defense.--
The Secretary of Transportation shall accept, for use by the Coast Guard 
for expanded drug interdiction activities, 7 PC-170 patrol craft if 
offered by the Department of Defense.

SEC. 813. EXPANSION OF AIRCRAFT COVERAGE AND OPERATION IN SOURCE AND 
            TRANSIT COUNTRIES.

    (a) Department of the Treasury.--Funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of the Treasury for fiscal years 1999, 
2000, and 2001 for the enhancement of air coverage and operation for 
drug source and transit countries in the total amount of $886,500,000 
which shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For procurement of 10 P-3B Early Warning aircraft for 
        the United States Customs Service to enhance overhead air 
        coverage of drug source zone countries.
            (2) For the procurement and deployment of 10 P-3B Slick 
        airplanes for the United States Customs Service to enhance 
        overhead air coverage of the drug source zone.
            (3) In fiscal years 2000 and 2001, for operation and 
        maintenance of 10 P-3B Early Warning aircraft for the United 
        States Customs Service to enhance overhead air coverage of drug 
        source zone countries.
            (4) For personnel for the 10 P-3B Early Warning aircraft for 
        the United States Customs Service to enhance overhead air 
        coverage of drug source zone countries.
            (5) In fiscal years 2000 and 2001, for operation and 
        maintenance of 10 P-3B Slick airplanes for the United States 
        Customs Service to enhance overhead coverage of the drug source 
        zone.
            (6) For personnel for the 10 P-3B Slick airplanes for the 
        United States Customs Service to enhance overhead air coverage 
        of drug source zone countries.
            (7) For construction and furnishing of an additional 
        facility for the P-3B aircraft.
            (8) For operation and maintenance for overhead air coverage 
        for source countries.
            (9) For operation and maintenance for overhead coverage for 
        the Caribbean and Eastern Pacific regions.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-699]]

            (10) For purchase and for operation and maintenance of 3 RU-
        38A observation aircraft (to be piloted by pilots under contract 
        with the United States).

    (b) Report.--Not later than January 31, 1999, the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of 
Central Intelligence, shall submit to the Committee on National 
Security, the Committee on International Relations, and the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and to 
the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and 
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate a report examining 
the options available in the source and transit zones to replace Howard 
Air Force Base in Panama and specifying the requirements of the United 
States to establish an airbase or airbases for use in support of 
counternarcotics operations to optimize operational effectiveness in the 
source and transit zones. The report shall identify the following:
            (1) The specific requirements necessary to support the 
        national drug control policy of the United States.
            (2) The estimated construction, operation, and maintenance 
        costs for a replacement counterdrug airbase or airbases in the 
        source and transit zones.
            (3) Possible interagency cost sharing arrangements for a 
        replacement airbase or airbases.
            (4) Any legal or treaty-related issues regarding the 
        replacement airbase or airbases.
            (5) A summary of completed alternative site surveys for the 
        airbase or airbases.

    (c) Transfer of Aircraft.--The Secretary of the Navy shall transfer 
to the United States Customs Service--
            (1) ten currently retired and previously identified 
        heavyweight P-3B aircraft for modification into P-3 AEW&C 
        aircraft; and
            (2) ten currently retired and previously identified 
        heavyweight P-3B aircraft for modification into P-3 Slick 
        aircraft.

  Subtitle B--Enhanced Eradication and Interdiction Strategy in Source 
                                Countries

SEC. 821. ADDITIONAL ERADICATION RESOURCES FOR COLOMBIA.

    (a) Department of State.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated 
for the Department of State for fiscal
years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the enhancement of drug-related 
eradication efforts in Colombia in the total amount of $201,250,000 
which shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For each such fiscal year for sustaining support of the 
        helicopters and fixed wing fleet of the national police of 
        Colombia.
            (2) For the purchase of DC-3 transport aircraft for the 
        national police of Colombia.
            (3) For acquisition of resources needed for prison security 
        in Colombia.
            (4) For the purchase of minigun systems for the national 
        police of Colombia.
            (5) For the purchase of 6 UH-60L Black Hawk utility 
        helicopters for the national police of Colombia and for 
        operation, maintenance, and training relating to such 
        helicopters.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-700]]

            (6) For procurement, for upgrade of 50 UH-1H helicopters to 
        the Huey II configuration equipped with miniguns for the use of 
        the national police of Colombia.
            (7) For the repair and rebuilding of the antinarcotics base 
        in southern Colombia.
            (8) For providing sufficient and adequate base and force 
        security for any rebuilt facility in southern Colombia, and the 
        other forward operating antinarcotics bases of the Colombian 
        National Police antinarcotics unit.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2291 note.>> (b) Counternarcotics Assistance.--
            (1) Limitation on provision of assistance.--Except as 
        provided in paragraph (2), United States counternarcotics 
        assistance may not be provided for the Government of Colombia 
        under this title or under any other provision of law on or after 
        the date of enactment of this Act if the Government of Colombia 
        negotiates or permits the establishment of any demilitarized 
        zone in which the eradication of drug production by the security 
        forces of Colombia, including the Colombian National Police 
        antinarcotics unit, is prohibited.
            (2) Exception.--If the Government of Colombia negotiates or 
        permits the establishment of a demilitarized zone described in 
        paragraph (1), United States counternarcotics assistance may be 
        provided for the Government of Colombia for a period of up to 90 
        consecutive days upon a finding by the President that providing 
        such assistance is in the national interest of the United 
        States.
            (3) Notification.--In each case in which counternarcotics 
        assistance is provided for the Government of Colombia as a 
        result of a finding by the President described in paragraph (2), 
        the President shall notify the Committees on Appropriations and 
        the authorizing committees of jurisdiction of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate not later than 5 days after such 
        assistance is provided.

SEC. 822. ADDITIONAL ERADICATION RESOURCES FOR PERU.

    (a) Department of State.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated 
for the Department of State for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for 
the establishment of a third drug interdiction site in Peru to support 
air bridge and riverine missions for enhancement of drug-related 
eradication efforts in Peru, in the total amount of $3,000,000, and an 
additional amount of $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 and 2001 
for operation and maintenance.
    (b) Department of Defense Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
conduct a study of Peruvian counternarcotics air interdiction 
requirements and, not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, submit to Congress a report on the results of the study. The 
study shall include a review of the Peruvian Air Force's current and 
future requirements for counternarcotics air
interdiction to complement the Peruvian Air Force's A-37 capability.

SEC. 823. ADDITIONAL ERADICATION RESOURCES FOR BOLIVIA.

    Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State 
for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for enhancement of drug-related 
eradication efforts in Bolivia in the total amount of $17,000,000 which 
shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For support of air operations in Bolivia.
            (2) For support of riverine operations in Bolivia.
            (3) For support of coca eradication programs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-701]]

            (4) For procurement of 2 mobile x-ray machines, with 
        operation and maintenance support.

SEC. 824. MISCELLANEOUS ADDITIONAL ERADICATION RESOURCES.

    Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State 
for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for enhanced precursor chemical 
control projects, in the total amount of $500,000.

SEC. 825. BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AFFAIRS.

    (a) Sense of Congress Relating to Professional Qualifications of 
Officials Responsible for International Narcotics Control.--It is the 
sense of Congress that any individual serving in the position of 
assistant secretary in any department or agency of the Federal 
Government who has primary responsibility for international narcotics 
control and law enforcement, and the principal deputy of any such 
assistant secretary, shall have substantial professional qualifications 
in the fields of--
            (1) management;
            (2) Federal law enforcement or intelligence; and
            (3) foreign policy.

    (b) Sense of Congress Relating to Deficiencies in International 
Narcotics Assistance Activities.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
responsiveness and effectiveness of international narcotics assistance 
activities under the Department of State have been severely hampered 
due, in part, to the lack of law enforcement expertise by responsible 
personnel in the Department of State.

Subtitle C--Enhanced Alternative Crop Development Support in Source Zone

SEC. 831. ALTERNATIVE CROP DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT.

    Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the United States Agency 
for International Development for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for 
alternative development programs in the total amount of $180,000,000 
which shall be available as follows:
            (1) In the Guaviare, Putumayo, and Caqueta regions in 
        Colombia.
            (2) In the Ucayali, Apurimac, and Huallaga Valley regions in 
        Peru.
            (3) In the Chapare and Yungas regions in Bolivia.

SEC. 832. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 
            SERVICE COUNTERDRUG RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Agriculture for each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001, 
$23,000,000 to support the counternarcotics research efforts of the 
Agricultural Research Service of the Department of Agriculture. Of that 
amount, funds are authorized as follows:
            (1) $5,000,000 shall be used for crop eradication 
        technologies.
            (2) $2,000,000 shall be used for narcotics plant 
        identification, chemistry, and biotechnology.
            (3) $1,000,000 shall be used for worldwide crop 
        identification, detection tagging, and production estimation 
        technology.
            (4) $5,000,000 shall be used for improving the disease 
        resistance, yield, and economic competitiveness of commercial

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-702]]

        crops that can be promoted as alternatives to the production of 
        narcotics plants.
            (5) $10,000,000 to contract with entities meeting the 
        criteria described in subsection (b) for the product 
        development, environmental testing, registration, production, 
        aerial distribution system development, product effectiveness 
        monitoring, and modification of multiple herbicides to control 
        narcotic crops (including coca, poppy, and cannabis) in the 
        United States and internationally.

    (b) Criteria for Eligible Entities.--An entity under this subsection 
is an entity which possesses--
            (1) experience in diseases of narcotic crops;
            (2) intellectual property involving seed-borne dispersal 
        formulations;
            (3) the availability of state-of-the-art containment or 
        quarantine facilities;
            (4) country-specific herbicide formulations;
            (5) specialized fungicide resistant formulations; or
            (6) special security arrangements.

SEC. 833. MASTER PLAN FOR HERBICIDES TO CONTROL NARCOTIC CROPS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy shall develop a 10-year master plan for the use of herbicides to 
control narcotic crops (including coca, poppy, and cannabis) in the 
United States and internationally.
    (b) Coordination.--The Director shall develop the plan in 
coordination with--
            (1) the Department of Agriculture;
            (2) the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice;
            (3) the Department of Defense;
            (4) the Environmental Protection Agency;
            (5) the Bureau for International Narcotics and Law 
        Enforcement Activities of the Department of State;
            (6) the United States Information Agency; and
            (7) other appropriate agencies.

    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 1999, the Director of the 
Office of National Drug Control Policy shall submit to Congress a report 
describing the activities undertaken to carry out this section.

SEC. 834. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1713.>> AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF 
            ENVIRONMENTALLY-APPROVED HERBICIDES TO ELIMINATE ILLICIT 
            NARCOTICS CROPS.

    The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, and the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency are authorized to support the development and use of 
environmentally-approved herbicides to eliminate illicit narcotics 
crops, including coca, cannabis, and opium poppy, both in the United 
States and in foreign countries.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-703]]

       Subtitle D--Enhanced International Law Enforcement Training

SEC. 841. ENHANCED INTERNATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY TRAINING.

    (a) Maritime Law Enforcement Training Center.--Funds are authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Transportation and the 
Department of the Treasury for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the 
joint establishment, operation, and maintenance in San Juan, Puerto 
Rico, of a center for training law enforcement personnel of countries 
located in the Latin American and Caribbean regions in matters relating 
to maritime law enforcement, including customs-related ports management 
matters, as follows:
            (1) For each such fiscal year for funding by the Department 
        of Transportation, $1,500,000.
            (2) For each such fiscal year for funding by the Department 
        of the Treasury, $1,500,000.

    (b) United States Coast Guard International Maritime Training 
Vessel.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
Transportation for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the 
establishment, operation, and maintenance of maritime training vessels 
in the total amount of $15,000,000 which shall be available for the 
following purposes:
            (1) For a vessel for international maritime training, which 
        shall visit participating Latin American and Caribbean nations 
        on a rotating schedule in order to provide law enforcement 
        training and to perform maintenance on participating national 
        assets.
            (2) For support of the United States Coast Guard Balsam 
        Class Buoy Tender training vessel.

SEC. 842. ENHANCED UNITED STATES DRUG ENFORCEMENT INTERNATIONAL 
            TRAINING.

    (a) Mexico.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Justice for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for 
substantial exchanges for Mexican judges, prosecutors, and police, in 
the total amount of $2,000,000 for each such fiscal year. The Attorney 
General shall consult with the Secretary of State regarding such 
exchanges.
    (b) Brazil.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Justice for fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for enhanced 
support for the Brazilian Federal Police Training Center, in the total 
amount of $1,000,000 for each such fiscal year. The Attorney General 
shall consult with the Secretary of State regarding such enhanced 
support.
    (c) Panama.--
            (1) In general.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for 
        the Department of Transportation for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
        and 2001 for operation and maintenance, for locating and 
        operating Coast Guard assets so as to strengthen the capability 
        of the Coast Guard of Panama to patrol the Atlantic and Pacific 
        coasts of Panama for drug enforcement and interdiction 
        activities, in the total amount of $1,000,000 for each such 
        fiscal year. The Secretary of Transportation shall consult with 
        the Secretary of State regarding the location and operation of 
        such assets for such purposes.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-704]]

            (2) Eligibility to receive training.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, members of the national police of Panama 
        shall be eligible to receive training through the International 
        Military Education Training program.

    (d) Venezuela.--There are authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Justice for each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001, 
$1,000,000 for operation and maintenance, for support for the Venezuelan 
Judicial Technical Police Counterdrug Intelligence Center. The Attorney 
General shall consult with the Secretary of State regarding such 
support.
    (e) Ecuador.--
            (1) In general.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for 
        the Department of Transportation and the Department of the 
        Treasury for each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the 
        buildup of local coast guard and port control in Guayaquil and 
        Esmeraldas, Ecuador, as follows:
                    (A) For each such fiscal year for the Department of 
                Transportation, $500,000.
                    (B) For each such fiscal year for the Department of 
                the Treasury, $500,000.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary of Transportation and the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of 
        State regarding the buildup described in paragraph (1).

    (f) Haiti and the Dominican Republic.--Funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of the Treasury for each of fiscal years 
1999, 2000, and 2001, $500,000 for the buildup of local coast guard and 
port control in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State regarding such 
buildup of local coast guard and port patrol.
    (g) Central America.--There are authorized to be appropriated for 
the Department of the Treasury for each of fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 
2001, $12,000,000 for the buildup of local coast guard and port control 
in Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 
The Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State 
regarding such buildup of local coast guard and port patrol.

SEC. 843. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2291-5.>> PROVISION OF NONLETHAL EQUIPMENT TO 
            FOREIGN LAW ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATIONS FOR COOPERATIVE 
            ILLICIT NARCOTICS CONTROL ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Administrator of 
the Drug Enforcement Administration, in consultation with the Secretary 
of State, may transfer or lease each year nonlethal equipment to foreign 
law enforcement organizations for the purpose of establishing and 
carrying out cooperative illicit narcotics control activities.
    (2)(A) The Administrator may transfer or lease equipment under 
paragraph (1) only if the equipment is not designated as a munitions 
item or controlled on the United States Munitions List pursuant to 
section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act.
    (B) The value of each piece of equipment transferred or leased under 
paragraph (1) may not exceed $100,000.
    (b) Additional Requirement.--The Administrator shall provide for the 
maintenance and repair of any equipment transferred or leased under 
subsection (a).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-705]]

    (c) Notification Requirement.--Before the export of any item 
authorized for transfer under subsection (a), the Administrator shall 
provide written notice to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
Representatives in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394-1).
    (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) all United States law enforcement personnel serving in 
        Mexico should be accredited the same status under the Vienna 
        Convention on Diplomatic Immunity as other diplomatic personnel 
        serving at United States posts in Mexico; and
            (2) all Mexican narcotics law enforcement personnel serving 
        in the United States should be accorded the same diplomatic 
        status as Drug Enforcement Administration personnel serving in 
        Mexico.

   Subtitle E--Enhanced Drug Transit and Source Zone Law Enforcement 
                        Operations and Equipment

SEC. 851. INCREASED FUNDING FOR OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT; REPORT.

    (a) Drug Enforcement Administration.--Funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Drug Enforcement Administration for fiscal years 
1999, 2000, and 2001 for enhancement of counternarcotic operations in 
drug transit and source countries in the total amount of $58,900,000 
which shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For support of the Merlin program.
            (2) For support of the intercept program.
            (3) For support of the development and implementation of 
        automation systems to support investigative and intelligence 
        requirements.
            (4) For support of the Caribbean Initiative.
            (5) For the hire of special agents, administrative and 
        investigative support personnel, and intelligence analysts for 
        the support of overseas investigations.

    (b) Department of State.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated 
for the Department of State for fiscal year 1999, 2000, and 2001 for the 
deployment of commercial unclassified intelligence and imaging data and 
a Passive Coherent Location System for counternarcotics and interdiction 
purposes in the Western Hemisphere, the total amount of $20,000,000.
    (c) Department of the Treasury.--Funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the United States Customs Service for fiscal years 
1999, 2000, and 2001 for enhancement of counternarcotic operations in 
drug transit and source countries in the total amount of $71,500,000 
which shall be available for the following purposes:
            (1) For refurbishment of up to 30 interceptor and Blue Water 
        Platform vessels in the Caribbean maritime fleet.
            (2) For purchase of up to 9 new interceptor vessels in the 
        Caribbean maritime fleet.
            (3) For the hire and training of up to 25 special agents for 
        maritime operations in the Caribbean.
            (4) For purchase of up to 60 automotive vehicles for ground 
        use in South Florida.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-706]]

            (5) For each such fiscal year for operation and maintenance 
        support for up to 10 United States Customs Service Citations 
        Aircraft to be dedicated for the source and transit zone.
            (6) For purchase of non-intrusive inspection systems 
        consistent with the United States Customs Service 5-year 
        technology plan, including truck x-rays and gamma-imaging for 
        drug interdiction purposes at high-threat seaports and land 
        border ports of entry.

    (d) Department of Defense Report.--Not later than January 31, 1999, 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the 
Office of National Drug Control Policy, shall submit to Congress a 
report examining and proposing recommendations regarding any 
organizational changes to optimize counterdrug activities, including 
alternative cost-sharing arrangements regarding the following 
facilities:
            (1) The Joint Inter-Agency Task Force, East, Key West, 
        Florida.
            (2) The Joint Inter-Agency Task Force, West, Alameda, 
        California.
            (3) The Joint Inter-Agency Task Force, South, Panama City, 
        Panama.
            (4) The Joint Task Force 6, El Paso, Texas.

SEC. 852. FUNDING FOR COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE TO FACILITATE 
            DIRECT COMMUNICATION BETWEEN DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
development and purchase of computer software and hardware to facilitate 
direct communication between agencies that perform work relating to the 
interdiction of drugs at United States borders, including the United 
States Customs Service, the Border Patrol, the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, and the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service, in the total amount of $50,000,000.
    (b) Availability.--Funds authorized pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 853. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING PRIORITY OF DRUG INTERDICTION AND 
            COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should 
revise the Global Military Force Policy of the Department of Defense in 
order--
            (1) to treat the international drug interdiction and 
        counter-drug activities of the Department as a military 
        operation other than war, thereby elevating the priority given 
        such activities under the Policy to the next priority below the 
        priority given to war under the Policy and to the same priority 
        as is given to peacekeeping operations under the Policy; and
            (2) to allocate the assets of the Department to drug 
        interdiction and counter-drug activities in accordance with the 
        priority given those activities.

                 Subtitle F--Relationship to Other Laws

SEC. 861. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The funds authorized to be appropriated for any department or agency 
of the Federal Government for fiscal years 1999, 2000,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-707]]

or 2001 by this title are in addition to funds authorized to be 
appropriated for that department or agency for fiscal year 1999, 2000, 
or 2001 by any other provision of law.

 Subtitle <<NOTE: Controlled Substances Trafficking Prohibition Act. 21 
USC 801 note.>> G--Trafficking in Controlled Substances

SEC. 871. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Controlled Substances 
Trafficking Prohibition Act''.

SEC. 872. LIMITATION.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 1006(a) of the Controlled Substances Import 
and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 956(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Attorney General'' and inserting ``(1) 
        Subject to paragraph (2), the Attorney General''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(2) Notwithstanding any exemption under paragraph (1), a United 
States resident who enters the United States through an international 
land border with a controlled substance (except a substance in schedule 
I) for which the individual does not possess a valid prescription issued 
by a practitioner (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) in accordance with applicable Federal 
and State law (or documentation that verifies the issuance of such a 
prescription to that individual) may not import the controlled substance 
into the United States in an amount that exceeds 50 dosage units of the 
controlled substance.''.
     <<NOTE: 21 USC 956 note.>> (b) Federal Minimum Requirement.--
Section 1006(a)(2) of the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, 
as added by subsection (a), is a minimum Federal requirement and shall 
not be construed to limit a State from imposing any additional 
requirement.

     <<NOTE: 21 USC 956 note.>> (c) Extent.--The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall not be construed to affect the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).

 TITLE <<NOTE: Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998. 15 USC 631 note.>> IX--
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998''.

SEC. 902. <<NOTE: 15 USC 654 note.>> FINDINGS; PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) 74 percent of adults who use illegal drugs are employed;
            (2) small business concerns employ over 50 percent of the 
        Nation's workforce;
            (3) in more than 88 percent of families with children under 
        the age of 18, at least 1 parent is employed; and
            (4) employees who use and abuse addictive illegal drugs and 
        alcohol increase costs for businesses and risk the health and 
        safety of all employees because--
                    (A) absenteeism is 66 percent higher among drug 
                users than individuals who do not use drugs;
                    (B) health benefit utilization is 300 percent higher 
                among drug users than individuals who do not use drugs;
                    (C) 47 percent of workplace accidents are drug-
                related;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-708]]

                    (D) disciplinary actions are 90 percent higher among 
                drug users than among individuals who do not use drugs; 
                and
                    (E) employee turnover is significantly higher among 
                drug users than among individuals who do not use drugs.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are to--
            (1) educate small business concerns about the advantages of 
        a drug-free workplace;
            (2) provide grants and technical assistance in addition to 
        financial incentives to enable small business concerns to create 
        a drug-free workplace;
            (3) assist working parents in keeping their children drug-
        free; and
            (4) encourage small business employers and employees alike 
        to participate in drug-free workplace programs.

SEC. 903. <<NOTE: 15 USC 654 note.>> SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) businesses should adopt drug-free workplace programs;
            (2) States should consider incentives to encourage 
        businesses to adopt drug-free workplace programs; and
            (3) such incentives may include--
                  (A) financial incentives, including--
                        (i) a reduction in workers' compensation 
                      premiums;
                        (ii) a reduction in unemployment insurance 
                      premiums; and
                        (iii) tax deductions in an amount equal to the 
                      amount of expenditures for employee assistance 
                      programs, treatment, or illegal drug testing; and
                  (B) other incentives, such as the adoption of 
                liability limitations, as recommended by the President's 
                Commission on Model State Drug Laws.

SEC. 904. <<NOTE: 15 USC 654.>> DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE DEMONSTRATION 
            PROGRAM.
      Section 27 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 654) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 27. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

      ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Drug-free workplace program.--The term `drug-free 
        workplace program' means a program that includes--
                    ``(A) a written policy, including a clear statement 
                of expectations for workplace behavior, prohibitions 
                against reporting to work or working under the influence 
                of illegal drugs or alcohol, prohibitions against the 
                use or possession of illegal drugs in the workplace, and 
                the consequences of violating those expectations and 
                prohibitions;
                    ``(B) drug and alcohol abuse prevention training for 
                a total of not less than 2 hours for each employee, and 
                additional voluntary drug and alcohol abuse prevention 
                training for employees who are parents;
                    ``(C) employee illegal drug testing, with analysis 
                conducted by a drug testing laboratory certified by the 
                Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
                Administration, or approved by the College of American 
                Pathologists for forensic drug testing, and a review of 
                each positive test result by a medical review officer;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-709]]

                    ``(D) employee access to an employee assistance 
                program, including confidential assessment, referral, 
                and short-term problem resolution; and
                    ``(E) continuing alcohol and drug abuse prevention 
                education.
            ``(2) Eligible intermediary.--The term `eligible 
        intermediary' means an organization--
                    ``(A) that has not less than 2 years of experience 
                in carrying out drug-free workplace programs;
                    ``(B) that has a drug-free workplace policy in 
                effect;
                    ``(C) that is located in a State, the District of 
                Columbia, or a territory of the United States; and
                    ``(D) the purpose of which is--
                          ``(i) to develop comprehensive drug-free 
                      workplace programs or to supply drug-free 
                      workplace services; or
                          ``(ii) to provide other forms of assistance 
                      and services to small business concerns.
            ``(3) Employee.--The term `employee' includes any--
                    ``(A) applicant for employment;
                    ``(B) employee;
                    ``(C) supervisor;
                    ``(D) manager;
                    ``(E) officer of a small business concern who is 
                active in management of the concern; and
                    ``(F) owner of a small business concern who is 
                active in management of the concern.
            ``(4) Medical review officer.--The term `medical review 
        officer'--
                    ``(A) means a licensed physician with knowledge of 
                substance abuse disorders; and
                    ``(B) does not include any--
                          ``(i) employee of the small business concern; 
                      or
                          ``(ii) employee or agent of, or any person 
                      having a financial interest in, the laboratory for 
                      which the illegal drug test results are being 
                      reviewed.

    ``(b) Establishment.--There is established a drug-free workplace 
demonstration program, under which the Administrator may make grants to, 
or enter into cooperative agreements or contracts with, eligible 
intermediaries for the purpose of providing financial and technical 
assistance to small business concerns seeking to establish a drug-free 
workplace program.
    ``(c) Privacy Protection for Employees Participating in a Drug-Free 
Workplace Program.--Each drug-free workplace program established with 
assistance made available under this section shall--
            ``(1) include, as reasonably necessary and appropriate, 
        practices and procedures to ensure the confidentiality of 
        illegal drug test results and of any participation by an 
        employee in a rehabilitation program;
            ``(2) prohibit the mandatory disclosure of medical 
        information by an employee prior to a confirmed positive illegal 
        drug test; and
            ``(3) require that a medical review officer reviewing 
        illegal drug test results shall report only the final results, 
        limited to those drugs for which the employee tests positive, in 
        writing

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-710]]

        and in a manner designed to ensure the confidentiality of the 
        results.

    ``(d) Evaluation and Coordination.--Not later than 18 months after 
the date of enactment of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998, the 
Administrator, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Director of National 
Drug Control Policy, shall--
            ``(1) evaluate the drug-free workplace programs established 
        with assistance made available under this section; and
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Reports.>> submit to Congress a report 
        describing the results of the evaluation under paragraph (1).

    ``(e) Contract Authority.--In carrying out this section, the 
Administrator may--
            ``(1) contract with public and private entities to provide 
        assistance related to carrying out the program under this 
        section; and
            ``(2) compensate those entities for provision of that 
        assistance.

    ``(f) Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed to 
require an employer who attends a program offered by an intermediary to 
contract for any service offered by the intermediary.
    ``(g) Authorization.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section, $10,000,000 for fiscal years 1999 and 
        2000. Amounts made available under this subsection shall remain 
        available until expended.
            ``(2) Small business development centers.--Of the total 
        amount made available under this subsection, not more than the 
        greater of 10 percent or $1,000,000 may be used to carry out 
        section 21(c)(3)(T).''.

SEC. 905. SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

    Section 21(c)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(3)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (R), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (S), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(T) providing information and assistance to small business 
        concerns with respect to establishing drug-free workplace 
        programs on or before October 1, 2000.''.

              TITLE X--CANYON FERRY RESERVOIR, MONTANA, ACT

SECTION 1001. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that the conveyance of the properties described in 
section 4(b) to the lessees of those properties for fair market value 
would have the beneficial results of--
            (1) reducing Pick-Sloan project debt for the Canyon Ferry 
        Unit;
            (2) providing a permanent source of funding to acquire 
        publicly accessible land and interests in land, including 
        easements and conservation easements, in the State from willing 
        sellers at fair market value to--
                    (A) restore and conserve fisheries habitat, 
                including riparian habitat;
                    (B) restore and conserve wildlife habitat;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-711]]

                    (C) enhance public hunting, fishing, and 
                recreational opportunities; and
                    (D) improve public access to public land;
            (3) eliminating Federal payments in lieu of taxes and 
        associated management expenditures in connection with the 
        Federal Government's ownership of the properties while 
        increasing local tax revenues from the new owners; and
            (4) eliminating expensive and contentious disputes between 
        the Secretary and leaseholders while ensuring that the Federal 
        Government receives full and fair value for the properties.

SEC. 1002. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are to--
            (1) establish terms and conditions under which the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall, for fair market value, convey certain 
        properties around Canyon Ferry Reservoir, Montana, to private 
        parties; and
            (2) acquire certain land for fish and wildlife conservation 
        purposes.

SEC. 1003. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Canyon ferry-broadwater county trust.--The term ``Canyon 
        Ferry-Broadwater County Trust'' means the Canyon Ferry-
        Broadwater County Trust established under section 8.
            (2) CFRA.--The term ``CFRA'' means the Canyon Ferry 
        Recreation Association, Incorporated, a Montana corporation.
            (3) Commissioners.--The term ``Commissioners'' means the 
        Board of Commissioners for Broadwater County, Montana.
            (4) Lease.--The term ``lease'' means a lease or permit in 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act that gives a 
        leaseholder the right to occupy a property.
            (5) Lessee.--The term ``lessee'' means--
                    (A) the leaseholder of 1 of the properties on the 
                date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) the leaseholder's heirs, executors, and assigns 
                of the leasehold interest in the property.
            (6) Montana fish and wildlife conservation trust.--The term 
        ``Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust'' means the 
        Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust established under 
        section 7.
            (7) Project.--The term ``project'' means the Canyon Ferry 
        Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Project.
            (8) Property.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``property'' means 1 of 
                the cabin sites described in section 4(b).
                    (B) Use in the plural.--The term ``properties'' 
                means all 265 of the properties and any contiguous 
                parcels referred to in section 4(b)(1)(B).
            (9) Purchaser.--The term ``purchaser'' means a person or 
        entity, excluding CFRA or a lessee, that purchases the 
        properties under section 4.
            (10) Reservoir.--The term ``Reservoir'' means the Canyon 
        Ferry Reservoir, Montana.
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (12) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Montana.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-712]]

SEC. 1004. SALE OF PROPERTIES.

    (a) In General.--Consistent with the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 
388, chapter 1093) and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act 
(43 U.S.C. 371 et seq.), the Secretary shall convey to CFRA or a 
purchaser--
            (1) all right, title, and interest (except the mineral 
        estate) of the United States in and to the properties, subject 
        to valid existing rights and the operational requirements of the 
        Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program; and
            (2) perpetual easements for--
                    (A) vehicular access to each property;
                    (B) access to and use of 1 dock per property; and
                    (C) access to and use of all boathouses, ramps, 
                retaining walls, and other improvements for which access 
                is provided in the leases as of the date of enactment of 
                this Act.

    (b) Description of Properties.--
            (1) In general.--The properties to be conveyed are--
                    (A) the 265 cabin sites of the Bureau of Reclamation 
                located along the northern end of the Reservoir in 
                portions of sections 2, 11, 12, 13, 15, 22, 23, and 26, 
                Township 10 North, Range 1 West; and
                    (B) any small parcel contiguous to any property (not 
                including shoreline or land needed to provide public 
                access to the shoreline of the Reservoir) that the 
                Secretary determines should be conveyed in order to 
                eliminate an inholding and facilitate administration of 
                surrounding land remaining in Federal ownership.
            (2) Acreage; legal description.--The acreage and legal 
        description of each property and of each parcel shall be 
        determined by the Secretary in consultation with CFRA.
            (3) Restrictive use covenant.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to maintain the unique 
                character of the Reservoir area, the Secretary, the 
                purchaser, CFRA, and each subsequent owner of each 
                property shall covenant that the use restrictions to 
                carry out subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall--
                          (i) be appurtenant to, and run, with each 
                      property; and
                          (ii) be binding on each subsequent owner of 
                      each property.
                    (B) Access to reservoir.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary, the purchaser, 
                      CFRA, and the subsequent owners of each property 
                      shall ensure that--
                                    (I) public access to and along the 
                                shoreline of the Reservoir in existence 
                                on the date of enactment of this Act is 
                                not obstructed; and
                                    (II) adequate public access to and 
                                along the shoreline of the Reservoir is 
                                maintained.
                          (ii) Federal reclamation law.--
                                    (I) In general.--No conveyance of 
                                property under this Act shall restrict 
                                or limit the authority or ability of the 
                                Secretary to fulfill the duties of the 
                                Secretary under the Act of June 17, 1902 
                                (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), and Acts 
                                supplemental

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-713]]

                                to and amendatory of that Act (43 U.S.C. 
                                371 et seq.).
                                    (II) No liability.--The operation of 
                                the Reservoir by the Secretary in 
                                fulfillment of the duties described in 
                                subclause (I) shall not result in 
                                liability for damages, direct or 
                                indirect, to the owner of any property 
                                conveyed under section 4(a) or damages 
                                from any loss of use or enjoyment of the 
                                property.
                    (C) Historical use.--The Secretary, the purchaser, 
                CFRA, and each subsequent owner of each property shall 
                covenant that future uses of the property shall be 
                limited to the type and intensity of uses in existence 
                on the date of enactment of this Act, as limited by the 
                prohibitions contained in the annual operating plan of 
                the Bureau of Reclamation for the Reservoir in effect on 
                October 1, 1998.

    (c) Purchase Process.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) solicit sealed bids for the properties;
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2), sell the properties to 
                the bidder that submits the highest bid above the 
                minimum bid determined under paragraph (2); and
                    (C) not accept any bid for less than all of the 
                properties in 1 transaction.
            (2) Minimum bid.--
                    (A) In general.--Before accepting bids, the 
                Secretary shall establish a minimum bid, which shall be 
                equal to the fair market value of the properties 
                determined by an appraisal of each property, exclusive 
                of the value of private improvements made by the 
                leaseholders before the date of the conveyance, in 
                conformance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                Federal Land Acquisition.
                    (B) Fair market value.--Any dispuste over the fair 
                market value of a property under subparagraph (A) shall 
                be resolved in accordance with section 2201.4 of title 
                43, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Right of first refusal.--If the highest bidder is other 
        than CFRA, CFRA shall have the right to match the highest bid 
        and purchase the properties at a price equal to the amount of 
        the highest bid.

    (d) Terms of Conveyance.--
            (1) Purchaser.--If the highest bidder is other than CFRA, 
        and CFRA does not match the highest bid, the following shall 
        apply:
                    (A) Payment.--The purchaser shall pay the amount bid 
                to the Secretary for distribution in accordance with 
                section 6.
                    (B) Conveyance.--The Secretary shall convey the 
                properties to the purchaser.
                    (C) Option to purchase.--The purchaser shall give 
                each lessee of a property conveyed under this section an 
                option to purchase the property at fair market value, as 
                determined under subsection (c)(2).
                    (D) Nonpurchasing lessees.--
                          (i) Right to continue lease.--A lessee that is 
                      unable or unwilling to purchase a property shall 
                      be provided the opportunity to continue to lease 
                      the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-714]]

                      property for fair market value rent under the same 
                      terms and conditions as apply under the existing 
                      lease for the property, and shall have the right 
                      to renew the term of the existing lease for 2 
                      consecutive 5-year terms.
                          (ii) Compensation for improvements.--If a 
                      lessee declines to purchase a property, the 
                      purchaser shall compensate the lessee for the fair 
                      market value, as determined pursuant to customary 
                      appraisal procedures, of all improvements made to 
                      the property by the lessee. The lessee may sell 
                      the improvements to the purchaser at any time, but 
                      the sale shall be completed by the final 
                      termination of the lease, after all renewals under 
                      clause (i).
            (2) CFRA.--If CFRA is the highest bidder, or matches the 
        highest bid, the following shall apply:
                    (A) Closing.--On receipt of a purchase request from 
                a lessee or CFRA, the Secretary shall close on the 
                property and prepare all other properties for closing 
                within 45 days.
                    (B) Payment.--At the closing for a property--
                          (i) the lessee or CFRA shall deliver to the 
                      Secretary payment for the property,
which the Secretary shall distribute in accordance with section 6; and
                          (ii) the Secretary shall convey the property 
                      to the lessee or CFRA.
                    (C) Appraisal.--The Secretary shall determine the 
                purchase amount of each property based on the appraisal 
                conducted under subsection (c)(2), the amount of the bid 
                under subsection (c)(1), and the proportionate share of 
                administrative costs pursuant to subsection (e). The 
                total purchase amount for all properties shall equal the 
                total bid amount plus administrative costs under 
                subsection (e).
                    (D) Timing.--CFRA and the lessees shall purchase at 
                least 75 percent of the properties not later than August 
                1 of the year that begins at least 12 months after title 
                to the first property is conveyed by the Secretary to a 
                lessee.
                    (E) Right to renew.--The Secretary shall afford the 
                lessees who have not purchased properties under this 
                section the right to renew the term of the existing 
                lease for 2 (but not more than 2) consecutive 5-year 
                terms.
                    (F) Reimbursement.--A lessee shall reimburse CFRA 
                for a proportionate share of the costs to CFRA of 
                completing the transactions contemplated by this Act, 
                including any interest charges.
                    (G) Rental payments.--All rent received from the 
                leases shall be distributed by the Secretary in 
                accordance with section 6.

    (e) Administrative Costs.--Any reasonable administrative costs 
incurred by the Secretary, including the costs of survey and appraisals, 
incident to the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be reimbursed by 
the purchaser or CFRA.
    (f) Timing.--The Secretary shall make every effort to complete the 
conveyance under subsection (a) not later than 1 year after the 
satisfaction of the condition established by section 8(b).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-715]]

    (g) Closings.--Real estate closings to complete the conveyance under 
subsection (a) may be staggered to facilitate the conveyance as agreed 
to by the Secretary and the purchaser or CFRA.
    (h) Conveyance to Lessee.--If a lessee purchases a property from the 
purchaser or CFRA, the Secretary, at the request of the lessee, shall 
have the conveyance documents prepared in the name or names of the 
lessee so as to minimize the amount of time and number of documents 
required to complete the closing for the property.

SEC. 1005. AGREEMENT.

    (a) Management of Silo's Campground.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the 
Commissioner of Reclamation, shall--
            (1) offer to contract with the Commissioners to manage the 
        Silo's campground;
            (2) enter into such a contract if agreed to by the Secretary 
        and the Commissioners; and
            (3) grant necessary easements for access roads within and 
        adjacent to the Silo's campground.

    (b) Concession Income.--Any income generated by any concession that 
may be granted by the Commissioners at the Silo's recreation area--
            (1) shall be deposited in the Canyon Ferry-Broadwater County 
        Trust; and
            (2) may be disbursed by the Canyon Ferry-Broadwater County 
        Trust manager as part of the income of the Trust.

SEC. 1006. USE OF PROCEEDS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds of conveyances 
under this Act shall be available, without further Act of appropriation, 
as follows:
            (1) 10 percent of the proceeds shall be applied by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury to reduce the outstanding debt for the 
        Pick-Sloan project at the Reservoir.
            (2) 90 percent of the proceeds shall be deposited in the 
        Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust.

SEC. 1007. MONTANA FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION TRUST.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
congressional delegation and the Governor of the State, shall establish 
a nonprofit charitable permanent perpetual public trust in the State, to 
be known as the ``Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust'' 
(referred to in this section as the ``Trust'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Trust shall be to provide a 
permanent source of funding to acquire publicly accessible land and 
interests in land, including easements and conservation easements, in 
the State from willing sellers at fair market value to--
            (1) restore and conserve fisheries habitat, including 
        riparian habitat;
            (2) restore and conserve wildlife habitat;
            (3) enhance public hunting, fishing, and recreational 
        opportunities; and
            (4) improve public access to public land.

    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Trust manager.--The Trust shall be managed by a trust 
        manager, who--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-716]]

                    (A) shall be responsible for investing the corpus of 
                the Trust; and
                    (B) shall disburse funds from the Trust on receiving 
                a request for disbursement from a majority of the 
                members of the Joint State-Federal Agency Board 
                established under paragraph (2) and after determining, 
                in consultation with the Citizen Advisory Board 
                established under paragraph (3) and after consideration 
                of any comments submitted by members of the public, that 
                the request meets the purpose of the Trust under 
                subsection (b) and the requirements of subsections (d) 
                and (e).
            (2) Joint state-federal agency board.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established a Joint 
                State-Federal agency Board, which shall consist of--
                          (i) 1 Forest Service employee employed in the 
                      State designated by the Forest Service;
                          (ii) 1 Bureau of Land Management employee 
                      employed in the State designated by the Bureau of 
                      Land Management;
                          (iii) 1 Bureau of Reclamation employee 
                      employed in the State designated by the Bureau of 
                      Reclamation;
                          (iv) 1 United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
                      employee employed in the State designated by the 
                      United States Fish and Wildlife Service; and
                          (v) 1 Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and 
                      Parks employee designated by the Department.
                    (B) Requests for disbursement.--After consulting 
                with the Citizen Advisory Board established under 
                paragraph (3) and after consideration of the Trust plan 
                prepared under paragraph (3)(C) and of any comments or 
                requests submitted by members of the public, the Joint 
                State-Federal Agency Board, by a vote of a majority of 
                its members, may submit to the Trust Manager a request 
                for disbursement if the Board determines that the 
                request meets the purpose of the Trust.
            (3) Citizen advisory board.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall nominate, and 
                the Joint State-Federal Agency
Board shall approve by a majority vote, a Citizen Advisory Board.
                    (B) Membership.--The Citizen Advisory Board shall 
                consist of 4 members, including 1 with a demonstrated 
                commitment to improving public access to public land and 
                to fish and wildlife conservation, from each of--
                          (i) a Montana organization representing 
                      agricultural landowners;
                          (ii) a Montana organization representing 
                      hunters;
                          (iii) a Montana organization representing 
                      fishermen; and
                          (iv) a Montana nonprofit land trust or 
                      environmental organization.
                    (C) Duties.--The Citizen Advisory Board, in 
                consultation with the Joint State-Federal Agency Board 
                and the Montana Association of Counties, shall prepare 
                and periodically update a Trust plan including 
                recommendations for requests for disbursement by the 
                Joint State-Federal Agency Board.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-717]]

                    (D) Objectives of plan.--The Trust plan shall be 
                designed to maximize the effectiveness of Montana Fish 
                and Wildlife Conservation Trust expenditures 
                considering--
                          (i) public needs and requests;
                          (ii) availability of property;
                          (iii) alternative sources of funding; and
                          (iv) availability of matching funds.
            (4) Public notice and comment.--Before requesting any 
        disbursements under paragraph (2), the Joint State-Federal 
        Agency Board shall--
                    (A) notify members of the public, including local 
                governments; and
                    (B) provide opportunity for public comment.

    (d) Use.--
            (1) Principal.--The principal of the Trust shall be 
        inviolate.
            (2) Earnings.--Earnings on amounts in the Trust shall be 
        used to carry out subsection (b) and to administer the Trust and 
        Citizen Advisory Board.
            (3) Local purposes.--Not more than 50 percent of the income 
        from the Trust in any year shall be used outside the watershed 
        of the Missouri River in the State, from Holter Dam upstream to 
        the confluence of the Jefferson River, Gallatin River, and 
        Madison River.

    (e) Management.--Land and interests in land acquired under this 
section shall be managed for the purpose described in subsection (b).

SEC. 1008. CANYON FERRY-BROADWATER COUNTY TRUST.

    (a) Establishment.--The Commissioners shall establish a nonprofit 
charitable permanent perpetual public trust to be known as the ``Canyon 
Ferry-Broadwater County Trust'' (referred to in this section as the 
``Trust'').
    (b) Priority of Trust Establishment.--
            (1) Condition to sale.--No sale of property under section 4 
        shall be made until at least $3,000,000, or a lesser amount as 
        offset by in-kind contributions made before full funding of the 
        trust, is deposited as the initial corpus of the Trust.
            (2) In-kind contributions.--
                    (A) In general.--In-kind contributions--
                          (i) shall be approved in advance by the 
                      Commissioners;
                          (ii) shall be made in Broadwater County;
                          (iii) shall be related to the improvement of 
                      access to the portions of the Reservoir lying 
                      within Broadwater County or
to the creation and improvement of new and existing recreational areas 
within Broadwater County; and
                          (iv) shall not include any contribution made 
                      by Broadwater County.
                    (B) Approval.--Approval by the Commissioners of an 
                in-kind contribution under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include approval of the value, nature, and type of the 
                contribution and of the entity that makes the 
                contribution.
            (3) Interest.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        Act, all interest earned on the principal of the Trust shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-718]]

        be reinvested and considered part of its corpus until the 
        condition stated in paragraph (1) is met.

    (c) Trust Management.--
            (1) Trust manager.--The Trust shall be managed by a 
        nonprofit foundation or other independent trustee to be selected 
        by the Commissioners.
            (2) Use.--The Trust manager shall invest the corpus of the 
        Trust and disburse funds as follows:
                    (A) Principal.--A sum not to exceed $500,000 may be 
                expended from the corpus to pay for the planning and 
                construction of a harbor at the Silo's recreation area.
                    (B) Interest.--The balance of the Trust shall be 
                held and the income shall be expended annually for the 
                improvement of access to the portions of the Reservoir 
                lying within Broadwater County, Montana, and for the 
                creation and improvement of new and existing 
                recreational areas within Broadwater County.
            (3) Disbursement.--The Trust manager--
                    (A) shall approve or reject any request for 
                disbursement; and
                    (B) shall not make any expenditure except on the 
                recommendation of the advisory committee established 
                under subsection (d).

    (d) Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Commissioners shall appoint an 
        advisory committee consisting of not fewer than 3 nor more than 
        5 persons.
            (2) Duties.--The advisory committee shall meet on a regular 
        basis to establish priorities and make requests for the 
        disbursement of funds to the Trust manager.
            (3) Approval by the commissioners.--The advisory committee 
        shall recommend only such expenditures as are approved by the 
        Commissioners.

    (e) No Offset.--Neither the corpus nor the income of the Trust shall 
be used to reduce or replace the regular operating expenses of the 
Secretary at the Reservoir, unless approved by the Commissioners.

SEC. 1009. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized to--
            (1) investigate, plan, construct, operate, and maintain 
        public recreational facilities on land withdrawn or acquired for 
        the development of the project;
            (2) conserve the scenery, the natural historic, 
        paleontologic, and archaeologic objects, and the wildlife on the 
        land;
            (3) provide for public use and enjoyment of the land and of 
        the water areas created by the project by such means as are 
        consistent with but subordinate to the purposes of the project; 
        and
            (4) investigate, plan, construct, operate, and maintain 
        facilities for the conservation of fish and wildlife resources.

    (b) Costs.--The costs (including operation and maintenance costs) of 
carrying out subsection (a) shall be nonreimbursable and nonreturnable 
under Federal reclamation law.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-719]]

TITLE XI--MORATORIUM ON CERTAIN <<NOTE: Internet Tax Freedom Act. 47 USC 
151 note.>> TAXES

SEC. 1100. SHORT TITLE.

      This title may be cited as the ``Internet Tax Freedom Act''.

SEC. 1101. MORATORIUM.

      (a) Moratorium.--No State or political subdivision thereof shall 
impose any of the following taxes during the period beginning on October 
1, 1998, and ending 3 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act--
            (1) taxes on Internet access, unless such tax was generally 
        imposed and actually enforced prior to October 1, 1998; and
            (2) multiple or discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce.
      (b) Preservation of State and Local Taxing Authority.--Except as 
provided in this section, nothing in this title shall be construed to 
modify, impair, or supersede, or authorize the modification, impairment, 
or superseding of, any State or local law pertaining to taxation that is 
otherwise permissible by or under the Constitution of the United States 
or other Federal law and in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
      (c) Liabilities and Pending Cases.--Nothing in this title affects 
liability for taxes accrued and enforced before the date of enactment of 
this Act, nor does this title affect ongoing litigation relating to such 
taxes.
      (d) Definition of Generally Imposed and Actually Enforced.--For 
purposes of this section, a tax has been generally imposed and actually 
enforced prior to October 1, 1998, if, before that date, the tax was 
authorized by statute and either--
            (1) a provider of Internet access services had a reasonable 
        opportunity to know by virtue of a rule or other public 
        proclamation made by the appropriate administrative agency of 
        the State or political subdivision thereof, that such agency has 
        interpreted and applied such tax to Internet access services; or
            (2) a State or political subdivision thereof generally 
        collected such tax on charges for Internet access.
      (e) Exception to Moratorium.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) shall also not apply in the 
        case of any person or entity who knowingly and with knowledge of 
        the character of the material, in interstate or foreign commerce 
        by means of the World Wide Web, makes any communication for 
        commercial purposes that is available to any minor and that 
        includes any material that is harmful to minors unless such 
        person or entity has restricted access by minors to material 
        that is harmful to minors--
                    (A) by requiring use of a credit card, debit 
                account, adult access code, or adult personal 
                identification number;
                    (B) by accepting a digital certificate that verifies 
                age; or
                    (C) by any other reasonable measures that are 
                feasible under available technology.
            (2) Scope of exception.--For purposes of paragraph (1), a 
        person shall not be considered to making a communication for 
        commercial purposes of material to the extent that the person 
        is--
                    (A) a telecommunications carrier engaged in the 
                provision of a telecommunications service;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-720]]

                    (B) a person engaged in the business of providing an 
                Internet access service;
                    (C) a person engaged in the business of providing an 
                Internet information location tool; or
                    (D) similarly engaged in the transmission, storage, 
                retrieval, hosting, formatting, or translation (or any 
                combination thereof) of a communication made by another 
                person, without selection or alteration of the 
                communication.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) By means of the world wide web.--The term ``by 
                means of the World Wide Web'' means by placement of 
                material in a computer server-based file archive so that 
                it is publicly accessible, over the Internet, using 
                hypertext transfer protocol, file transfer protocol, or 
                other similar protocols.
                    (B) Commercial purposes; engaged in the business.--
                          (i) Commercial purposes.--A person shall be 
                      considered to make a communication for commercial 
                      purposes only if such person is engaged in the 
                      business of making such communications.
                          (ii) Engaged in the business.--The term 
                      ``engaged in the business'' means that the person 
                      who makes a communication, or offers to make a 
                      communication, by means of the World Wide Web, 
                      that includes any material that is harmful to 
                      minors, devotes time, attention, or labor to such 
                      activities, as a regular course of such
person's trade or business, with the objective of earning a profit as a 
result of such activities (although it is not necessary that the person 
make a profit or that the making or offering to make such communications 
be the person's sole or principal business or source of income). A 
person may be considered to be engaged in the business of making, by 
means of the World Wide Web, communications for commercial purposes that 
include material that is harmful to minors, only if the person knowingly 
causes the material that is harmful to minors to be posted on the World 
Wide Web or knowingly solicits such material to be posted on the World 
Wide Web.
                    (C) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' means 
                collectively the myriad of computer and 
                telecommunications facilities, including equipment and 
                operating software, which comprise the interconnected 
                world-wide network of networks that employ the 
                Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any 
                predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to 
                communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
                    (D) Internet access service.--The term ``Internet 
                access service'' means a service that enables users to 
                access content, information, electronic mail, or other 
                services offered over the Internet and may also include 
                access to proprietary content, information, and other 
                services as part of a package of services offered to 
                consumers. Such term does not include telecommunications 
                services.
                    (E) Internet information location tool.--The term 
                ``Internet information location tool'' means a service 
                that

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-721]]

                refers or links users to an online location on the World 
                Wide Web. Such term includes directories, indices, 
                references, pointers, and hypertext links.
                    (F) Material that is harmful to minors.--The term 
                ``material that is harmful to minors'' means any 
                communication, picture, image, graphic image file, 
                article, recording, writing, or other matter of any kind 
                that is obscene or that--
                          (i) the average person, applying contemporary 
                      community standards, would find, taking the 
                      material as a whole and with respect to minors, is 
                      designed to appeal to, or is designed to pander 
                      to, the prurient interest;
                          (ii) depicts, describes, or represents, in a 
                      manner patently offensive with respect to minors, 
                      an actual or simulated sexual act or sexual 
                      contact, an actual or simulated normal or 
                      perverted sexual act, or a lewd exhibition of the 
                      genitals or post-pubescent female breast; and
                          (iii) taken as a whole, lacks serious 
                      literary, artistic, political, or scientific value 
                      for minors.
                    (G) Minor.--The term ``minor'' means any person 
                under 17 years of age.
                    (H) Telecommunications carrier; telecommunications 
                service.--The terms ``telecommunications carrier'' and 
                ``telecommunications service'' have the meanings given 
                such terms in section 3 of the Communications Act of 
                1934 (47 U.S.C. 153).
      (f) Additional Exception to Moratorium.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) shall also not apply with 
        respect to an Internet access provider,
unless, at the time of entering into an agreement with a customer for 
the provision of Internet access services, such provider offers such 
customer (either for a fee or at no charge) screening software that is 
designed to permit the customer to limit access to material on the 
Internet that is harmful to minors.
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Internet access provider.--The term `Internet 
                access provider' means a person engaged in the business 
                of providing a computer and communications facility 
                through which a customer may obtain access to the 
                Internet, but does not include a common carrier to the 
                extent that it provides only telecommunications 
                services.
                    (B) Internet access services.--The term `Internet 
                access services' means the provision of computer and 
                communications services through which a customer using a 
                computer and a modem or other communications device may 
                obtain access to the Internet, but does not include 
                telecommunications services provided by a common 
                carrier.
                    (C) Screening software.--The term ``screening 
                software'' means software that is designed to permit a 
                person to limit access to material on the Internet that 
                is harmful to minors.
            (3) Applicability.--Paragraph (1) shall apply to agreements 
        for the provision of Internet access services entered into on or 
        after the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-722]]

SEC. 1102. ADVISORY COMMISSION ON ELECTRONIC COMMERCE.

    (a) Establishment of Commission.--There is established a commission 
to be known as the Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce (in this 
title referred to as the ``Commission''). The Commission shall--
            (1) be composed of 19 members appointed in accordance with 
        subsection (b), including the chairperson who shall be selected 
        by the members of the Commission from among themselves; and
            (2) conduct its business in accordance with the provisions 
        of this title.

    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Commissioners shall serve for the life 
        of the Commission. The membership of the Commission shall be as 
        follows:
                    (A) 3 representatives from the Federal Government, 
                comprised of the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of 
                the Treasury, and the United States Trade Representative 
                (or their respective delegates).
                    (B) 8 representatives from State and local 
                governments (one such representative shall be from a 
                State or local government that does not impose a sales 
                tax and one representative shall be from a State that 
                does not impose an income tax).
                    (C) 8 representatives of the electronic commerce 
                industry (including small business), telecommunications 
                carriers, local retail businesses, and consumer groups, 
                comprised of--
                          (i) 5 individuals appointed by the Majority 
                      Leader of the Senate;
                          (ii) 3 individuals appointed by the Minority 
                      Leader of the Senate;
                          (iii) 5 individuals appointed by the Speaker 
                      of the House of Representatives; and
                          (iv) 3 individuals appointed by the Minority 
                      Leader of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Appointments.--Appointments to the Commission shall be 
        made not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act. The chairperson shall be selected not later than 60 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the 
        original appointment.

    (c) Acceptance of Gifts and Grants.--The Commission may accept, use, 
and dispose of gifts or grants of services or property, both real and 
personal, for purposes of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
Commission. Gifts or grants not used at the expiration of the Commission 
shall be returned to the donor or grantor.
    (d) Other Resources.--The Commission shall have reasonable access to 
materials, resources, data, and other information from the Department of 
Justice, the Department of Commerce, the Department of State, the 
Department of the Treasury, and the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative. The Commission shall also have reasonable access to use 
the facilities of any such Department or Office for purposes of 
conducting meetings.
    (e) Sunset.--The Commission shall terminate 18 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-723]]

    (f) Rules of the Commission.--
            (1) Quorum.--Nine members of the Commission shall constitute 
        a quorum for conducting the business of the Commission.
            (2) Meetings.--Any meetings held by the Commission shall be 
        duly noticed at least 14 days in advance and shall be open to 
        the public.
            (3) Opportunities to testify.--The Commission shall provide 
        opportunities for representatives of the general public, 
        taxpayer groups, consumer groups, and State and local government 
        officials to testify.
            (4) Additional rules.--The Commission may adopt other rules 
        as needed.

    (g) Duties of the Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall conduct a thorough 
        study of Federal, State and local, and international taxation 
        and tariff treatment of transactions using the Internet and 
        Internet access and other comparable intrastate, interstate or 
        international sales activities.
            (2) Issues to be studied.--The Commission may include in the 
        study under subsection (a)--
                    (A) an examination of--
                          (i) barriers imposed in foreign markets on 
                      United States providers of property, goods, 
                      services, or information engaged in electronic 
                      commerce and on United States providers of 
                      telecommunications services; and
                          (ii) how the imposition of such barriers will 
                      affect United States consumers, the 
                      competitiveness of United States citizens 
                      providing property, goods, services, or 
                      information in foreign markets, and the growth and 
                      maturing of the Internet;
                    (B) an examination of the collection and 
                administration of consumption taxes on electronic 
                commerce in other countries and the United States, and 
                the impact of such collection on the global economy, 
                including an examination of the relationship between the 
                collection and administration of such taxes when the 
                transaction uses the Internet and when it does not;
                    (C) an examination of the impact of the Internet and 
                Internet access (particularly voice transmission) on the 
                revenue base for taxes imposed under section 4251 of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
                    (D) an examination of model State legislation that--
                          (i) would provide uniform definitions of 
                      categories of property, goods, service, or 
                      information subject to or exempt from sales and 
                      use taxes; and
                          (ii) would ensure that Internet access 
                      services, online services, and communications and 
                      transactions using the Internet, Internet access 
                      service, or online services would be treated in a 
                      tax and technologically neutral manner relative to 
                      other forms of remote sales;
                    (E) an examination of the effects of taxation, 
                including the absence of taxation, on all interstate 
                sales transactions, including transactions using the 
                Internet, on retail businesses and on State and local 
                governments, which examination may include a review of 
                the efforts of State

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-724]]

                and local governments to collect sales and use taxes 
                owed on in-State purchases from out-of-State sellers; 
                and
                    (F) the examination of ways to simplify Federal and 
                State and local taxes imposed on the provision of 
                telecommunications services.
            (3) Effect on the communications act of 1934.--Nothing in 
        this section shall include an examination of any fees or charges 
        imposed by the Federal Communications Commission or States 
        related to--
                    (A) obligations under the Communications Act of 1934 
                (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.); or
                    (B) the implementation of the Telecommunications Act 
                of 1996 (or of amendments made by that Act).
      (h) National Tax Association Communications and Electronic 
Commerce Tax Project.--The Commission shall, to the extent possible, 
ensure that its work does not undermine the efforts of the National Tax 
Association Communications and Electronic Commerce Tax Project.

SEC. 1103. REPORT.

      Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Commission shall transmit to Congress for its consideration a 
report reflecting the results, including such legislative 
recommendations as required to address the findings of the Commission's 
study under this title. Any recommendation agreed to by the Commission 
shall be tax and technologically neutral and apply to all forms of 
remote commerce. No finding or recommendation shall be included in the 
report unless agreed to by at least two-thirds of the members of the 
Commission serving at the time the finding or recommendation is made.

SEC. 1104. DEFINITIONS.

      For the purposes of this title:
            (1) Bit tax.--The term ``bit tax'' means any tax on 
        electronic commerce expressly imposed on or measured by the 
        volume of digital information transmitted electronically, or the 
        volume of digital information per unit of time transmitted 
        electronically, but does not include taxes imposed on the 
        provision of telecommunications services.
            (2) Discriminatory tax.--The term ``discriminatory tax'' 
        means--
                    (A) any tax imposed by a State or political 
                subdivision thereof on electronic commerce that--
                          (i) is not generally imposed and legally 
                      collectible by such State or such political 
                      subdivision on transactions involving similar 
                      property, goods, services, or information 
                      accomplished through other means;
                          (ii) is not generally imposed and legally 
                      collectible at the same rate by such State or such 
                      political subdivision on transactions involving 
                      similar property, goods, services, or information 
                      accomplished through other means, unless the rate 
                      is lower as part of a phase-out of the tax over 
                      not more than a 5-year period;
                          (iii) imposes an obligation to collect or pay 
                      the tax on a different person or entity than in 
                      the case of transactions involving similar 
                      property, goods, services, or information 
                      accomplished through other means;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-725]]

                          (iv) establishes a classification of Internet 
                      access service providers or online service 
                      providers for purposes of establishing a higher 
                      tax rate to be imposed on such providers than the 
                      tax rate generally applied to providers of similar 
                      information services delivered through other 
                      means; or
                    (B) any tax imposed by a State or political 
                subdivision thereof, if--
                          (i) except with respect to a tax (on Internet 
                      access) that was generally imposed and actually 
                      enforced prior to October 1, 1998, the sole 
                      ability to access a site on a remote seller's out-
                      of-State computer server is considered a factor in 
                      determining
a remote seller's tax collection obligation; or
                          (ii) a provider of Internet access service or 
                      online services is deemed to be the agent of a 
                      remote seller for determining tax collection 
                      obligations solely as a result of--
                                    (I) the display of a remote seller's 
                                information or content on the out-of-
                                State computer server of a provider of 
                                Internet access service or online 
                                services; or
                                    (II) the processing of orders 
                                through the out-of-State computer server 
                                of a provider of Internet access service 
                                or online services.
            (3) Electronic commerce.--The term ``electronic commerce'' 
        means any transaction conducted over the Internet or through 
        Internet access, comprising the sale, lease, license, offer, or 
        delivery of property, goods, services, or information, whether 
        or not for consideration, and includes the provision of Internet 
        access.
            (4) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' means collectively the 
        myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including 
        equipment and operating software, which comprise the 
        interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the 
        Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any 
        predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to 
        communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
            (5) Internet access.--The term ``Internet access'' means a 
        service that enables users to access content, information, 
        electronic mail, or other services offered over the Internet, 
        and may also include access to proprietary content, information, 
        and other services as part of a package of services offered to 
        users. Such term does not include telecommunications services.
            (6) Multiple tax.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``multiple tax'' means any 
                tax that is imposed by one State or political 
                subdivision thereof on the same or essentially the same 
                electronic commerce that is also subject to another tax 
                imposed by another State or political subdivision 
                thereof (whether or not at the same rate or on the same 
                basis), without a credit (for example, a resale 
                exemption certificate) for taxes paid in other 
                jurisdictions.
                    (B) Exception.--Such term shall not include a sales 
                or use tax imposed by a State and 1 or more political 
                subdivisions thereof on the same electronic commerce or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-726]]

                a tax on persons engaged in electronic commerce which 
                also may have been subject to a sales or use tax 
                thereon.
                    (C) Sales or use tax.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (B), the term ``sales or use tax'' means a tax that is 
                imposed on or incident to the sale, purchase, storage, 
                consumption, distribution, or other use of tangible 
                personal property or services as may be defined by laws 
                imposing such tax and which is measured by the amount of 
                the sales price or other charge for such property or 
                service.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means any of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, 
        territory, or possession of the United States.
            (8) Tax.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``tax'' means--
                          (i) any charge imposed by any governmental 
                      entity for the purpose of generating revenues for 
                      governmental purposes, and is not a fee imposed 
                      for a specific privilege, service, or benefit 
                      conferred; or
                          (ii) the imposition on a seller of an 
                      obligation to collect and to remit to a 
                      governmental entity any sales or use tax imposed 
                      on a buyer by a governmental entity.
                    (B) Exception.--Such term does not include any 
                franchise fee or similar fee imposed by a State or local 
                franchising authority, pursuant to section 622 or 653 of 
                the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 542, 573), or 
                any other fee related to obligations or 
                telecommunications carriers under the Communications Act 
                of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
            (9) Telecommunications service.--The term 
        ``telecommunications service'' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 3(46) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
        153(46)) and includes communications services (as defined in 
        section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
            (10) Tax on internet access.--The term ``tax on Internet 
        access'' means a tax on Internet access, including the 
        enforcement or application of any new or preexisting tax on the 
        sale or use of Internet services unless such tax was generally 
        imposed and actually enforced prior to October 1, 1998.

                       TITLE XII--OTHER PROVISIONS

SEC. 1201. DECLARATION THAT INTERNET SHOULD BE FREE OF NEW FEDERAL 
            TAXES.

    It is the sense of Congress that no new Federal taxes similar to the 
taxes described in section 1101(a) should be enacted with respect to the 
Internet and Internet access during the moratorium provided in such 
section.

SEC. 1202. NATIONAL TRADE ESTIMATE.

    Section 181 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2241) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause 
                      (i);
                          (ii) by inserting ``and'' at the end of clause 
                      (ii); and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-727]]

                          (iii) by inserting after clause (ii) the 
                      following new clause:
                          ``(iii) United States electronic commerce,''; 
                      and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause 
                      (i);
                          (ii) by inserting ``and'' at the end of clause 
                      (ii);
                          (iii) by inserting after clause (ii) the 
                      following new clause:
                          ``(iii) the value of additional United States 
                      electronic commerce,''; and
                          (iv) by inserting ``or transacted with,'' 
                      after ``or invested in'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)(E)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i);
                    (B) by inserting ``and'' at the end of clause (ii); 
                and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new 
                clause:
                          ``(iii) the value of electronic commerce 
                      transacted with,''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Electronic Commerce.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`electronic commerce' has the meaning given that term in section 1104(3) 
of the Internet Tax Freedom Act.''.

SEC. 1203. <<NOTE: 19 USC 2241 note.>> DECLARATION THAT THE INTERNET 
            SHOULD BE FREE OF FOREIGN TARIFFS, TRADE BARRIERS, AND OTHER 
            RESTRICTIONS.

    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that the President 
should seek bilateral, regional, and multilateral agreements to remove 
barriers to global electronic commerce through the World Trade 
Organization, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, 
the Trans-Atlantic Economic Partnership, the Asia Pacific Economic 
Cooperation forum, the Free Trade Area of the America, the North 
American Free Trade Agreement, and other appropriate venues.
    (b) Negotiating Objectives.--The negotiating objectives of the 
United States shall be--
            (1) to assure that electronic commerce is free from--
                    (A) tariff and nontariff barriers;
                    (B) burdensome and discriminatory regulation and 
                standards; and
                    (C) discriminatory taxation; and
            (2) to accelerate the growth of electronic commerce by 
        expanding market access opportunities for--
                    (A) the development of telecommunications 
                infrastructure;
                    (B) the procurement of telecommunications equipment;
                    (C) the provision of Internet access and 
                telecommunications services; and
                    (D) the exchange of goods, services, and digitalized 
                information.

    (c) Electronic Commerce.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``electronic commerce'' has the meaning given that term in section 
1104(3).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-728]]

SEC. 1204. NO EXPANSION OF TAX <<NOTE: 19 USC 2241 note.>> AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to expand the duty of any 
person to collect or pay taxes beyond that which existed immediately 
before the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1205. <<NOTE: 19 USC 2241 note.>> PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this title shall limit or otherwise affect the 
implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
104) or the amendments made by such Act.

SEC. 1206. <<NOTE: 19 USC 2241 note.>> SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this title, or any amendment made by this title, 
or the application of that provision to any person or circumstance, is 
held by a court of competent jurisdiction to violate any provision of 
the Constitution of the United States, then the other provisions of that 
title, and the application of that provision to other persons and 
circumstances, shall not be affected.

TITLE <<NOTE: Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998.>> XIII--
CHILDREN'S ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION

SEC. 1301. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6501 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Children's Online Privacy 
Protection Act of 1998''.

SEC. 1302. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6501.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Child.--The term ``child'' means an individual under the 
        age of 13.
            (2) Operator.--The term ``operator''--
                    (A) means any person who operates a website located 
                on the Internet or an online service and who collects or 
                maintains personal information from or about the users 
                of or visitors to such website or online service, or on 
                whose behalf such information is collected or 
                maintained, where such website or online service is 
                operated for commercial purposes, including any person 
                offering products or services for sale through that 
                website or online service, involving commerce--
                          (i) among the several States or with 1 or more 
                      foreign nations;
                          (ii) in any territory of the United States or 
                      in the District of Columbia, or between any such 
                      territory and--
                                    (I) another such territory; or
                                    (II) any State or foreign nation; or
                          (iii) between the District of Columbia and any 
                      State, territory, or foreign nation; but
                    (B) does not include any nonprofit entity that would 
                otherwise be exempt from coverage under section 5 of the 
                Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45).
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Trade Commission.
            (4) Disclosure.--The term ``disclosure'' means, with respect 
        to personal information--
                    (A) the release of personal information collected 
                from a child in identifiable form by an operator for any 
                purpose, except where such information is provided to a 
                person other than the operator who provides support for 
                the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-729]]

                internal operations of the website and does not disclose 
                or use that information for any other purpose; and
                    (B) making personal information collected from a 
                child by a website or online service directed to 
                children or with actual knowledge that such information 
                was collected from a child, publicly available in 
                identifiable form, by any means including by a public 
                posting, through the Internet, or through--
                          (i) a home page of a website;
                          (ii) a pen pal service;
                          (iii) an electronic mail service;
                          (iv) a message board; or
                          (v) a chat room.
            (5) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means an 
        agency, as that term is defined in section 551(1) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (6) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' means collectively the 
        myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including 
        equipment and operating software, which comprise the 
        interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the 
        Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any 
        predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to 
        communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
            (7) Parent.--The term ``parent'' includes a legal guardian.
            (8) Personal information.--The term ``personal information'' 
        means individually identifiable information about an individual 
        collected online, including--
                    (A) a first and last name;
                    (B) a home or other physical address including 
                street name and name of a city or town;
                    (C) an e-mail address;
                    (D) a telephone number;
                    (E) a Social Security number;
                    (F) any other identifier that the Commission 
                determines permits the physical or online contacting of 
                a specific individual; or
                    (G) information concerning the child or the parents 
                of that child that the website collects online from the 
                child and combines with an identifier described in this 
                paragraph.
            (9) Verifiable parental consent.--The term ``verifiable 
        parental consent'' means any reasonable effort (taking into 
        consideration available technology), including a request for 
        authorization for future collection, use, and disclosure 
        described in the notice, to ensure that a parent of a child 
        receives notice of the operator's personal information 
        collection, use, and disclosure practices, and authorizes the 
        collection, use, and disclosure, as applicable, of personal 
        information and the subsequent use of that information before 
        that information is collected from that child.
            (10) Website or online service directed to children.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``website or online 
                service directed to children'' means--
                          (i) a commercial website or online service 
                      that is targeted to children; or
                          (ii) that portion of a commercial website or 
                      online service that is targeted to children.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-730]]

                    (B) Limitation.--A commercial website or online 
                service, or a portion of a commercial website or online 
                service, shall not be deemed directed to children solely 
                for referring or linking to a commercial website or 
                online service directed to children by using information 
                location tools, including a directory, index, reference, 
                pointer, or hypertext link.
            (11) Person.--The term ``person'' means any individual, 
        partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, 
        association, or other entity.
            (12) Online contact information.--The term ``online contact 
        information'' means an e-mail address or another substantially 
        similar identifier that permits direct contact with a person 
        online.

SEC. 1303. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6502.>> REGULATION OF UNFAIR AND DECEPTIVE 
            ACTS AND PRACTICES IN CONNECTION WITH THE COLLECTION AND USE 
            OF PERSONAL INFORMATION FROM AND ABOUT CHILDREN ON THE 
            INTERNET.
      (a) Acts Prohibited.--
            (1) In general.--It is unlawful for an operator of a website 
        or online service directed to children, or any operator that has 
        actual knowledge that it is collecting personal information from 
        a child, to collect personal information from a child in a 
        manner that violates the regulations prescribed under subsection 
        (b).
            (2) Disclosure to parent protected.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (1), neither an operator of such a website or online 
        service nor the operator's agent shall be held to be liable 
        under any Federal or State law for any disclosure made in good 
        faith and following reasonable procedures in responding to a 
        request for disclosure of personal information under subsection 
        (b)(1)(B)(iii) to the parent of a child.
      (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall promulgate under 
        section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regulations that--
                    (A) require the operator of any website or online 
                service directed to children that collects personal 
                information from children or the operator of a website 
                or online service that has actual knowledge that it is 
                collecting personal information from a child--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Notice.>> to provide notice on the 
                      website of what information is collected from 
                      children by the operator, how the operator uses 
                      such information, and the operator's disclosure 
                      practices for such information; and
                          (ii) to obtain verifiable parental consent for 
                      the collection, use, or disclosure of personal 
                      information from children;
                    (B) require the operator to provide, upon request of 
                a parent under this subparagraph whose child has 
                provided personal information to that website or online 
                service, upon proper identification of that parent, to 
                such parent--
                          (i) a description of the specific types of 
                      personal information collected from the child by 
                      that operator;
                          (ii) the opportunity at any time to refuse to 
                      permit the operator's further use or maintenance 
                      in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-731]]

                      retrievable form, or future online collection, of 
                      personal information from that child; and
                          (iii) notwithstanding any other provision of 
                      law, a means that is reasonable under the 
                      circumstances for the parent to obtain any 
                      personal information collected from that child;
                    (C) prohibit conditioning a child's participation in 
                a game, the offering of a prize, or another activity on 
                the child disclosing more personal information than is 
                reasonably necessary to participate in such activity; 
                and
                    (D) require the operator of such a website or online 
                service to establish and maintain reasonable procedures 
                to protect the confidentiality, security, and integrity 
                of personal information collected from children.
            (2) When consent not required.--The regulations shall 
        provide that verifiable parental consent under paragraph 
        (1)(A)(ii) is not required in the case of--
                    (A) online contact information collected from a 
                child that is used only to respond directly on a one-
                time basis to a specific request from the child and is 
                not used to recontact the child and is not maintained in 
                retrievable form by the operator;
                    (B) a request for the name or online contact 
                information of a parent or child that is used for the 
                sole purpose of obtaining parental consent or providing 
                notice under this section and where such information is 
                not maintained in retrievable form by the operator if 
                parental consent is not obtained after a reasonable 
                time;
                    (C) online contact information collected from a 
                child that is used only to respond more than once 
                directly to a specific request from the child and is not 
                used to recontact the child beyond the scope of that 
                request--
                          (i) if, before any additional response after 
                      the initial response to the child, the operator 
                      uses reasonable efforts to provide a parent notice 
                      of the online contact information collected from 
                      the child, the purposes for which it is to be 
                      used, and an opportunity for the parent to request 
                      that the operator make no further use of the 
                      information and that it not be maintained in 
                      retrievable form; or
                          (ii) without notice to the parent in such 
                      circumstances as the Commission may determine are 
                      appropriate, taking into consideration the 
                      benefits to the child of access to information and 
                      services, and risks to the security and privacy of 
                      the child, in regulations promulgated under this 
                      subsection;
                    (D) the name of the child and online contact 
                information (to the extent reasonably necessary to 
                protect the safety of a child participant on the site)--
                          (i) used only for the purpose of protecting 
                      such safety;
                          (ii) not used to recontact the child or for 
                      any other purpose; and
                          (iii) not disclosed on the site,
                if the operator uses reasonable efforts to provide a 
                parent notice of the name and online contact information 
                collected from the child, the purposes for which it is 
                to be used,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-732]]

                and an opportunity for the parent to request that the 
                operator make no further use of the information and that 
                it not be maintained in retrievable form; or
                    (E) the collection, use, or dissemination of such 
                information by the operator of such a website or online 
                service necessary--
                          (i) to protect the security or integrity of 
                      its website;
                          (ii) to take precautions against liability;
                          (iii) to respond to judicial process; or
                          (iv) to the extent permitted under other 
                      provisions of law, to provide information to law 
                      enforcement agencies or for an investigation on a 
                      matter related to public safety.
            (3) Termination of service.--The regulations shall permit 
        the operator of a website or an online service to terminate 
        service provided to a child whose parent has refused, under the 
        regulations prescribed under paragraph (1)(B)(ii), to permit the 
        operator's further use or maintenance in retrievable form, or 
        future online collection, of personal information from that 
        child.

    (c) Enforcement.--Subject to sections 1304 and 1306, a violation of 
a regulation prescribed under subsection (a) shall be treated as a 
violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice 
prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act 
(15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
    (d) Inconsistent State Law.--No State or local government may impose 
any liability for commercial activities or actions by operators in 
interstate or foreign commerce in connection with an activity or action 
described in this title that is inconsistent with the treatment of those 
activities or actions under this section.

SEC. 1304. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6503.>> SAFE HARBORS.

    (a) Guidelines.--An operator may satisfy the requirements of 
regulations issued under section 1303(b) by following a set of self-
regulatory guidelines, issued by representatives of the marketing or 
online industries, or by other persons, approved under subsection (b).
    (b) Incentives.--
            (1) Self-regulatory incentives.--In prescribing regulations 
        under section 1303, the Commission shall provide incentives for 
        self-regulation by operators to implement the protections 
        afforded children under the regulatory requirements described in 
        subsection (b) of that section.
            (2) Deemed compliance.--Such incentives shall include 
        provisions for ensuring that a person will be deemed to be in 
        compliance with the requirements of the regulations under 
        section 1303 if that person complies with guidelines that, after 
        notice and comment, are approved by the Commission upon making a 
        determination that the guidelines meet the requirements of the 
        regulations issued under section 1303.
            (3) Expedited response to requests.--The Commission shall 
        act upon requests for safe harbor treatment within 180 days of 
        the filing of the request, and shall set forth in writing its 
        conclusions with regard to such requests.

    (c) Appeals.--Final action by the Commission on a request for 
approval of guidelines, or the failure to act
within 180 days on a request for approval of guidelines, submitted under 
subsection

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-733]]

(b) may be appealed to a district court of the United States of 
appropriate jurisdiction as provided for in section 706 of title 5, 
United States Code.

SEC. 1305. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6504.>> ACTIONS BY STATES.
      (a) In General.--
            (1) Civil actions.--In any case in which the attorney 
        general of a State has reason to believe that an interest of the 
        residents of that State has been or is threatened or adversely 
        affected by the engagement of any person in a practice that 
        violates any regulation of the Commission prescribed under 
        section 1303(b), the State, as parens patriae, may bring a civil 
        action on behalf of the residents of the State in a district 
        court of the United States of appropriate jurisdiction to--
                    (A) enjoin that practice;
                    (B) enforce compliance with the regulation;
                    (C) obtain damage, restitution, or other 
                compensation on behalf of residents of the State; or
                    (D) obtain such other relief as the court may 
                consider to be appropriate.
            (2) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--Before filing an action under 
                paragraph (1), the attorney general of the State 
                involved shall provide to the Commission--
                          (i) written notice of that action; and
                          (ii) a copy of the complaint for that action.
                    (B) Exemption.--
                          (i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
                      apply with respect to the filing of an action by 
                      an attorney general of a State under this 
                      subsection, if the attorney general determines 
                      that it is not feasible to provide the notice 
                      described in that subparagraph before the filing 
                      of the action.
                          (ii) Notification.--In an action described in 
                      clause (i), the attorney general of a State shall 
                      provide notice and a copy of the complaint to the 
                      Commission at the same time as the attorney 
                      general files the action.

    (b) Intervention.--
            (1) In general.--On receiving notice under subsection 
        (a)(2), the Commission shall have the right to intervene in the 
        action that is the subject of the notice.
            (2) Effect of intervention.--If the Commission intervenes in 
        an action under subsection (a), it shall have the right--
                    (A) to be heard with respect to any matter that 
                arises in that action; and
                    (B) to file a petition for appeal.
            (3) Amicus curiae.--Upon application to the court, a person 
        whose self-regulatory guidelines have been approved by the 
        Commission and are relied upon as a defense by any defendant to 
        a proceeding under this section may file amicus curiae in that 
        proceeding.

    (c) Construction.--For purposes of bringing any civil action under 
subsection (a), nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent an 
attorney general of a State from exercising the powers conferred on the 
attorney general by the laws of that State to--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-734]]

            (1) conduct investigations;
            (2) administer oaths or affirmations; or
            (3) compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of 
        documentary and other evidence.
      (d) Actions by the Commission.--In any case in which an action is 
instituted by or on behalf of the Commission for violation of any 
regulation prescribed under section 1303, no State may, during the 
pendency of that action, institute an action under subsection (a) 
against any defendant named in the complaint in that action for 
violation of that regulation.
      (e) Venue; Service of Process.--
            (1) Venue.--Any action brought under subsection (a) may be 
        brought in the district court of the United States that meets 
        applicable requirements relating to venue under section 1391 of 
        title 28, United States Code.
            (2) Service of process.--In an action brought under 
        subsection (a), process may be served in any district in which 
        the defendant--
                    (A) is an inhabitant; or
                    (B) may be found.

SEC. 1306. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6505.>> ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICABILITY OF 
            ACT.
      (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided, this title shall be 
enforced by the Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 
U.S.C. 41 et seq.).
      (b) Provisions.--Compliance with the requirements imposed under 
this title shall be enforced under--
            (1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), in the case of--
                    (A) national banks, and Federal branches and Federal 
                agencies of foreign banks, by the Office of the 
                Comptroller of the Currency;
                    (B) member banks of the Federal Reserve System 
                (other than national banks), branches and agencies of 
                foreign banks (other than Federal branches, Federal 
                agencies, and insured State branches of foreign banks), 
                commercial lending companies owned or controlled by 
                foreign banks, and organizations operating under section 
                25 or 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601 et 
                seq. and 611 et. seq.), by the Board; and
                    (C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation (other than members of the Federal Reserve 
                System) and insured State branches of foreign banks, by 
                the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation;
            (2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), by the Director of the Office of Thrift 
        Supervision, in the case of a savings association the deposits 
        of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
        Corporation;
            (3) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) by 
        the National Credit Union Administration Board with respect to 
        any Federal credit union;
            (4) part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
        by the Secretary of Transportation with respect to any air 
        carrier or foreign air carrier subject to that part;
            (5) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et. 
        seq.) (except as provided in section 406 of that Act (7

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-735]]

        U.S.C. 226, 227)), by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect 
        to any activities subject to that Act; and
            (6) the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) by 
        the Farm Credit Administration with respect to any Federal land 
        bank, Federal land bank association, Federal intermediate credit 
        bank, or production credit association.

    (c) Exercise of Certain Powers.--For the purpose of the exercise by 
any agency referred to in subsection (a) of its powers under any Act 
referred to in that subsection, a violation of any requirement imposed 
under this title shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement 
imposed under that Act. In addition to its powers under any provision of 
law specifically referred to in subsection (a), each of the agencies 
referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of 
enforcing compliance with any requirement imposed under this title, any 
other authority conferred on it by law.
    (d) Actions by the Commission.--The Commission shall prevent any 
person from violating a rule of the Commission under section 1303 in the 
same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, 
and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and 
made a part of this title. Any entity that violates such rule shall be 
subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities 
provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the 
same means, and with the same jurisdiction, power, and duties as though 
all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act 
were incorporated into and made a part of this title.
    (e) Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing contained in the Act shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any other 
provisions of law.

SEC. 1307. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6506.>> REVIEW.

    Not later than 5 years after the effective date of the regulations 
initially issued under section 1303, the Commission shall--
            (1) review the implementation of this title, including the 
        effect of the implementation of this title on practices relating 
        to the collection and disclosure of information relating to 
        children, children's ability to obtain access to information of 
        their choice online, and on the availability of websites 
        directed to children; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>> prepare and submit to Congress a 
        report on the results of the review under paragraph (1).

SEC. 1308. <<NOTE: 15 USC 6501 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Sections 1303(a), 1305, and 1306 of this title take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) the date that is 18 months after the date of enactment 
        of this Act; or
            (2) the date on which the Commission rules on the first 
        application filed for safe harbor treatment under section 1304 
        if the Commission does not rule on the first such application 
        within one year after the date of enactment of this Act, but in 
        no case later than the date that is 30 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-736]]

TITLE <<NOTE: Child Online Protection Act. 47 USC 609 note.>> XIV--CHILD 
ONLINE PROTECTION

SEC. 1401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Child Online Protection Act''.

SEC. 1402. <<NOTE: 47 USC 231 note.>> CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) while custody, care, and nurture of the child resides 
        first with the parent, the widespread availability of the 
        Internet presents opportunities for minors to access materials 
        through the World Wide Web in a manner that can frustrate 
        parental supervision or control;
            (2) the protection of the physical and psychological well-
        being of minors by shielding them from materials that are 
        harmful to them is a compelling governmental interest;
            (3) to date, while the industry has developed innovative 
        ways to help parents and educators restrict material that is 
        harmful to minors through parental control protections and self-
        regulation, such efforts have not provided a national solution 
        to the problem of minors accessing harmful material on the World 
        Wide Web;
            (4) a prohibition on the distribution of material harmful to 
        minors, combined with legitimate defenses, is currently the most 
        effective and least restrictive means by which to satisfy the 
        compelling government interest; and
            (5) notwithstanding the existence of protections that limit 
        the distribution over the World Wide Web of material that is 
        harmful to minors, parents, educators, and industry must 
        continue efforts to find ways to protect children from being 
        exposed to harmful material found on the Internet.

SEC. 1403. REQUIREMENT TO RESTRICT ACCESS BY MINORS TO MATERIALS 
            COMMERCIALLY DISTRIBUTED BY MEANS OF THE WORLD WIDE WEB THAT 
            ARE HARMFUL TO MINORS.

    Part I of title II of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 201 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 231. <<NOTE: 47 USC 231.>> RESTRICTION OF ACCESS BY MINORS TO 
            MATERIALS COMMERCIALLY DISTRIBUTED BY MEANS OF WORLD WIDE 
            WEB THAT ARE HARMFUL TO MINORS.

    ``(a) Requirement To Restrict Access.--
            ``(1) Prohibited conduct.--Whoever knowingly and with 
        knowledge of the character of the material, in interstate or 
        foreign commerce by means of the World Wide Web, makes any 
        communication for commercial purposes that is available to any 
        minor and that includes any material that is harmful to minors 
        shall be fined not more than $50,000, imprisoned not more than 6 
        months, or both.
            ``(2) Intentional violations.--In addition to the penalties 
        under paragraph (1), whoever intentionally violates such 
        paragraph shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50,000 
        for each violation. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of 
        violation shall constitute a separate violation.
            ``(3) Civil penalty.--In addition to the penalties under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), whoever violates paragraph (1) shall be 
        subject to a civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-737]]

        each violation. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of 
        violation shall constitute a separate violation.

    ``(b) Inapplicability of Carriers and Other Service Providers.--For 
purposes of subsection (a), a person shall not be considered to make any 
communication for commercial purposes to the extent that such person 
is--
            ``(1) a telecommunications carrier engaged in the provision 
        of a telecommunications service;
            ``(2) a person engaged in the business of providing an 
        Internet access service;
            ``(3) a person engaged in the business of providing an 
        Internet information location tool; or
            ``(4) similarly engaged in the transmission, storage, 
        retrieval, hosting, formatting, or translation (or any 
        combination thereof) of a communication made by another person, 
        without selection or alteration of the content of the 
        communication, except that such person's deletion of a 
        particular communication or material made by another person in a 
        manner consistent with subsection (c) or section 230 shall not 
        constitute such selection or alteration of the content of the 
        communication.
      ``(c) Affirmative Defense.--
            ``(1) Defense.--It is an affirmative defense to prosecution 
        under this section that the defendant, in good faith, has 
        restricted access by minors to material that is harmful to 
        minors--
                    ``(A) by requiring use of a credit card, debit 
                account, adult access code, or adult personal 
                identification number;
                    ``(B) by accepting a digital certificate that 
                verifies age; or
                    ``(C) by any other reasonable measures that are 
                feasible under available technology.
            ``(2) Protection for use of defenses.--No cause of action 
        may be brought in any court or administrative agency against any 
        person on account of any activity that is not in violation of 
        any law punishable by criminal or civil penalty, and that the 
        person has taken in good faith to implement a defense authorized 
        under this subsection or otherwise to restrict or prevent the 
        transmission of, or access to, a communication specified in this 
        section.
      ``(d) Privacy Protection Requirements.--
            ``(1) Disclosure of information limited.--A person making a 
        communication described in subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) shall not disclose any information collected 
                for the purposes of restricting access to such 
                communications to individuals 17 years of age or older 
                without the prior written or electronic consent of--
                          ``(i) the individual concerned, if the 
                      individual is an adult; or
                          ``(ii) the individual's parent or guardian, if 
                      the individual is under 17 years of age; and
                    ``(B) shall take such actions as are necessary to 
                prevent unauthorized access to such information by a 
                person other than the person making such communication 
                and the recipient of such communication.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--A person making a communication described 
        in subsection (a) may disclose such information if the 
        disclosure is--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-738]]

                    ``(A) necessary to make the communication or conduct 
                a legitimate business activity related to making the 
                communication; or
                    ``(B) made pursuant to a court order authorizing 
                such disclosure.
      ``(e) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            ``(1) By means of the world wide web.--The term `by means of 
        the World Wide Web' means by placement of material in a computer 
        server-based file archive so that it is publicly accessible, 
        over the Internet, using hypertext transfer protocol or any 
        successor protocol.
            ``(2) Commercial purposes; engaged in the business.--
                    ``(A) Commercial purposes.--A person shall be 
                considered to make a communication for commercial 
                purposes only if such person is engaged in the business 
                of making such communications.
                    ``(B) Engaged in the business.--The term `engaged in 
                the business' means that the person who makes a 
                communication, or offers to make a communication, by 
                means of the World Wide Web, that includes any material 
                that is harmful to minors, devotes time, attention, or 
                labor to such activities, as a regular course of such 
                person's trade or business, with the objective of 
                earning a profit as a result of such activities 
                (although it is not necessary that the person make a 
                profit or that the making or offering to make such 
                communications be the person's sole or principal 
                business or source of income). A person may be 
                considered to be engaged in the business of making, by 
                means of the World Wide Web, communications for 
                commercial purposes that include material that is 
                harmful to minors, only if the person knowingly causes 
                the material that is harmful to minors to be posted on 
                the World Wide Web or knowingly solicits such material 
                to be posted on the World Wide Web.
            ``(3) Internet.--The term `Internet' means the combination 
        of computer facilities and electromagnetic transmission media, 
        and related equipment and software, comprising the 
        interconnected worldwide network of computer networks that 
        employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol or 
        any successor protocol to transmit information.
            ``(4) Internet access service.--The term `Internet access 
        service' means a service that enables users to access content, 
        information, electronic mail, or other services offered over the 
        Internet, and may also include access to proprietary content, 
        information, and other services as part of a package of services 
        offered to consumers. Such term does not include 
        telecommunications services.
            ``(5) Internet information location tool.--The term 
        `Internet information location tool' means a service that refers 
        or links users to an online location on the World Wide Web. Such 
        term includes directories, indices, references, pointers, and 
        hypertext links.
            ``(6) Material that is harmful to minors.--The term 
        `material that is harmful to minors' means any communication, 
        picture, image, graphic image file, article, recording, writing, 
        or other matter of any kind that is obscene or that--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-739]]

                    ``(A) the average person, applying contemporary 
                community standards, would find, taking the material as 
                a whole and with respect to minors, is designed to 
                appeal to, or is designed to pander to, the prurient 
                interest;
                    ``(B) depicts, describes, or represents, in a manner 
                patently offensive with respect to minors, an actual or 
                simulated sexual act or sexual contact, an actual or 
                simulated normal or perverted sexual act, or a lewd 
                exhibition of the genitals or post-pubescent female 
                breast; and
                    ``(C) taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, 
                artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
            ``(7) Minor.--The term `minor' means any person under 17 
        years of age.''.

SEC. 1404. NOTICE REQUIREMENT.

      (a) Notice.--Section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 230) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting ``or 231'' after 
        ``section 223'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
      ``(d) Obligations of Interactive Computer Service.--A provider of 
interactive computer service shall, at the time of entering an agreement 
with a customer for the provision of interactive computer service and in 
a manner deemed appropriate by the provider, notify such customer that 
parental control protections (such as computer hardware, software, or 
filtering services) are commercially available that may assist the 
customer in limiting access to material that is harmful to minors. Such 
notice shall identify, or provide the customer with access to 
information identifying, current providers of such protections.''.
      (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 223(h)(2) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 223(h)(2)) is amended by striking ``230(e)(2)'' 
and inserting ``230(f)(2)''.

SEC. 1405. <<NOTE: 47 USC 231 note.>> STUDY BY COMMISSION ON ONLINE 
            CHILD PROTECTION.
      (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a temporary 
Commission to be known as the Commission on Online Child Protection (in 
this section referred to as the ``Commission'') for the purpose of 
conducting a study under this section regarding methods to help reduce 
access by minors to material that is harmful to minors on the Internet.
      (b) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 19 members, 
as follows:
            (1) Industry members.--The Commission shall include--
                    (A) 2 members who are engaged in the business of 
                providing Internet filtering or blocking services or 
                software;
                    (B) 2 members who are engaged in the business of 
                providing Internet access services;
                    (C) 2 members who are engaged in the business of 
                providing labeling or ratings services;
                    (D) 2 members who are engaged in the business of 
                providing Internet portal or search services;
                    (E) 2 members who are engaged in the business of 
                providing domain name registration services;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-740]]

                    (F) 2 members who are academic experts in the field 
                of technology; and
                    (G) 4 members who are engaged in the business of 
                making content available over the Internet.
            Of the members of the Commission by reason of each 
        subparagraph of this paragraph, an equal number shall be 
        appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and by 
        the Majority Leader of the Senate.
            (2) Ex officio members.--The Commission shall include the 
        following officials:
                    (A) The Assistant Secretary (or the Assistant 
                Secretary's designee).
                    (B) The Attorney General (or the Attorney General's 
                designee).
                    (C) The Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission (or 
                the Chairman's designee).

    (c) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall conduct a study to 
        identify technological or other methods that--
                    (A) will help reduce access by minors to material 
                that is harmful to minors on the Internet; and
                    (B) may meet the requirements for use as affirmative 
                defenses for purposes of section 231(c) of the 
                Communications Act of 1934 (as added by this title).
            Any methods so identified shall be used as the basis for 
        making legislative recommendations to the Congress under 
        subsection (d)(3).
            (2) Specific methods.--In carrying out the study, the 
        Commission shall identify and analyze various technological 
        tools and methods for protecting minors from material that is 
        harmful to minors, which shall include (without limitation)--
                    (A) a common resource for parents to use to help 
                protect minors (such as a ``one-click-away'' resource);
                    (B) filtering or blocking software or services;
                    (C) labeling or rating systems;
                    (D) age verification systems;
                    (E) the establishment of a domain name for posting 
                of any material that is harmful to minors; and
                    (F) any other existing or proposed technologies or 
                methods for reducing access by minors to such material.
            (3) Analysis.--In analyzing technologies and other methods 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (2), the Commission shall 
        examine--
                    (A) the cost of such technologies and methods;
                    (B) the effects of such technologies and methods on 
                law enforcement entities;
                    (C) the effects of such technologies and methods on 
                privacy;
                    (D) the extent to which material that is harmful to 
                minors is globally distributed and the effect of such 
                technologies and methods on such distribution;
                    (E) the accessibility of such technologies and 
                methods to parents; and
                    (F) such other factors and issues as the Commission 
                considers relevant and appropriate.

    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the enactment of this Act, 
the Commission shall submit a report to the Congress

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-741]]

containing the results of the study under this section, which shall 
include--
            (1) a description of the technologies and methods identified 
        by the study and the results of the analysis of each such 
        technology and method;
            (2) the conclusions and recommendations of the Commission 
        regarding each such technology or method;
            (3) recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        actions to implement the conclusions of the committee; and
            (4) a description of the technologies or methods identified 
        by the study that may meet the requirements for use as 
        affirmative defenses for purposes of section 231(c) of the 
        Communications Act of 1934 (as added by this title).

    (e) Staff and Resources.--The Assistant Secretary for Communication 
and Information of the Department of Commerce shall provide to the 
Commission such staff and resources as the Assistant Secretary 
determines necessary for the Commission to perform its duty efficiently 
and in accordance with this section.
    (f) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 30 days after the 
submission of the report under subsection (d).
    (g) Inapplicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
Commission.

SEC. 1406. <<NOTE: 47 USC 223 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect 
30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

 TITLE <<NOTE: Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Modification Act. 26 
USC 1 note.>> XV--VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION PROGRAM MODIFICATION ACT

SECTION 1501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Vaccine Injury Compensation Program 
Modification Act''.

SEC. 1502. ELIMINATION OF THRESHOLD REQUIREMENT OF UNREIMBURSABLE 
            EXPENSES.

    Section 2111(c)(1)(D)(i) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300aa-11(c)(1)(D)(i)) is amended by striking ``and incurred 
unreimbursable expenses due in whole or in part to such illness, 
disability, injury, or condition in an amount greater than $1,000''.

SEC. 1503. INCLUSION OF ROTAVIRUS GASTROENTERITIS AS A TAXABLE VACCINE.

    (a) In General.--Section 4132(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 4132.>> (defining taxable vaccine) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) Any vaccine against rotavirus 
                gastroenteritis.''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 4132 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) Sales.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
        to sales after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Deliveries.--For purposes of paragraph (1), in the case 
        of sales on or before the date of the enactment of this Act for 
        which delivery is made after such date, the delivery date shall 
        be considered the sale date.

SEC. 1504. VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION TRUST FUND.

    (a) Amendments Related to Section 904 of 1997 Act.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-742]]

            (1) Paragraph (1) of section 9510(c) of the 1986 
        Code <<NOTE: 26 USC 9510.>> is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts in the Vaccine Injury 
        Compensation Trust Fund shall be available, as provided in 
        appropriation Acts, only for--
                    ``(A) the payment of compensation under subtitle 2 
                of title XXI of the Public Health Service Act (as in 
                effect on August 6, 1997) for vaccine-related injury or 
                death with respect to any vaccine--
                          ``(i) which is administered after September 
                      30, 1988, and
                          ``(ii) which is a taxable vaccine (as defined 
                      in section 4132(a)(1)) at the time the vaccine was 
                      administered, or
                    ``(B) the payment of all expenses of administration 
                incurred by the Federal Government in administering such 
                subtitle.''.
            (2) Section 9510(b) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Limitation on transfers to vaccine injury compensation 
        trust fund.--No amount may be appropriated to the Vaccine Injury 
        Compensation Trust Fund on and after the date of any expenditure 
        from the Trust Fund which is not permitted by this section. The 
        determination of whether an expenditure is so permitted shall be 
        made without regard to--
                    ``(A) any provision of law which is not contained or 
                referenced in this title or in a revenue Act, and
                    ``(B) whether such provision of law is a 
                subsequently enacted provision or directly or indirectly 
                seeks to waive the application of this paragraph.''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 9510 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect as if included in the provisions 
of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 to which they relate.

  TITLE <<NOTE: Persian Gulf War Veterans Act of 1998.>> XVI--SERVICE 
CONNECTION FOR PERSIAN GULF WAR ILLNESSES

SEC. 1601. <<NOTE: 38 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Persian Gulf War Veterans Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 1602. PRESUMPTION OF SERVICE CONNECTION FOR ILLNESSES ASSOCIATED 
            WITH SERVICE IN THE PERSIAN GULF DURING THE PERSIAN GULF 
            WAR.

    (a) In General.--(1) Subchapter II of chapter 11 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 1118. Presumptions of service connection for illnesses associated 
                        with service in the Persian Gulf during the 
                        Persian Gulf War

    ``(a)(1) For purposes of section 1110 of this title, and subject to 
section 1113 of this title, each illness, if any, described in paragraph 
(2) shall be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated by 
service referred to in that paragraph, notwithstanding that there is no 
record of evidence of such illness during the period of such service.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-743]]

    ``(2) An illness referred to in paragraph (1) is any diagnosed or 
undiagnosed illness that--
            ``(A) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> the Secretary determines in 
        regulations prescribed under this section to warrant a 
        presumption of service connection by reason of having a positive 
        association with exposure to a biological, chemical, or other 
        toxic agent, environmental or wartime hazard, or preventive 
        medicine or vaccine known or presumed to be associated with 
        service in the Armed Forces in the Southwest Asia theater of 
        operations during the Persian Gulf War; and
            ``(B) becomes manifest within the period, if any, prescribed 
        in such regulations in a veteran who served on active duty in 
        that theater of operations during that war and by reason of such 
        service was exposed to such agent, hazard, or medicine or 
        vaccine.

    ``(3) For purposes of this subsection, a veteran who served on 
active duty in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the 
Persian Gulf War and has an illness described in paragraph (2) shall be 
presumed to have been exposed by reason of such service to the agent, 
hazard, or medicine or vaccine associated with the illness in the 
regulations prescribed under this section unless there is conclusive 
evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to the agent, 
hazard, or medicine or vaccine by reason of such service.

    ``(b)(1)(A) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> Whenever the Secretary makes a 
determination described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
prescribe regulations providing that a presumption of service connection 
is warranted for the illness covered by that determination for purposes 
of this section.

    ``(B) A determination referred to in subparagraph (A) is a 
determination based on sound medical and scientific evidence that a 
positive association exists between--
            ``(i) the exposure of humans or animals to a biological, 
        chemical, or other toxic agent, environmental or wartime hazard, 
        or preventive medicine or vaccine known or presumed to be 
        associated with service in the Southwest Asia theater of 
        operations during the Persian Gulf War; and
            ``(ii) the occurrence of a diagnosed or undiagnosed illness 
        in humans or animals.

    ``(2)(A) In making determinations for purposes of paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall take into account--
            ``(i) the reports submitted to the Secretary by the National 
        Academy of Sciences under section 1603 of the Persian Gulf War 
        Veterans Act of 1998; and
            ``(ii) all other sound medical and scientific information 
        and analyses available to the Secretary.

    ``(B) In evaluating any report, information, or analysis for 
purposes of making such determinations, the Secretary shall take into 
consideration whether the results are statistically significant, are 
capable of replication, and withstand peer review.
    ``(3) An association between the occurrence of an illness in humans 
or animals and exposure to an agent, hazard, or medicine or vaccine 
shall be considered to be positive for purposes of this subsection if 
the credible evidence for the association is equal to or outweighs the 
credible evidence against the association.
    ``(c)(1) Not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
Secretary receives a report from the National Academy of Sciences

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-744]]

under section 1603 of the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act of 1998, the 
Secretary shall determine whether or not a presumption of service 
connection is warranted for each illness, if any, covered by the report.
    ``(2) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> If the Secretary determines under this 
subsection that a presumption of service connection is warranted, the 
Secretary shall, not later than 60 days after making the determination, 
issue proposed regulations setting forth the Secretary's determination.

    ``(3)(A) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> If the Secretary 
determines under this subsection that a presumption of service 
connection is not warranted, the Secretary shall, not later than 60 days 
after making the determination, publish in the Federal Register a notice 
of the determination. The notice shall include an explanation of the 
scientific basis for the determination.

    ``(B) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> If an illness already presumed to be 
service connected under this section is subject to a determination under 
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall, not later than 60 days after 
publication of the notice under that subparagraph, issue proposed 
regulations removing the presumption of service connection for the 
illness.

    ``(4) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> Not later than 90 days after the date 
on which the Secretary issues any proposed regulations under this 
subsection, the Secretary shall <<NOTE: Effective date.>> issue final 
regulations. Such regulations shall be effective on the date of 
issuance.

    ``(d) Whenever the presumption of service connection for an illness 
under this section is removed under subsection (c)--
            ``(1) a veteran who was awarded compensation for the illness 
        on the basis of the presumption before the effective date of the 
        removal of the presumption shall continue to be entitled to 
        receive compensation on that basis; and
            ``(2) a survivor of a veteran who was awarded dependency and 
        indemnity compensation for the death of a veteran resulting from 
        the illness on the
basis of the presumption before that date shall continue to be entitled 
to receive dependency and indemnity compensation on that basis.

    ``(e) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> Subsections (b) through (d) shall 
cease to be effective 10 years after the first day of the fiscal year in 
which the National Academy of Sciences submits to the Secretary the 
first report under section 1603 of the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act of 
1998.''.

    (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1117 the 
following new item:

``1118. Presumptions of service connection for illnesses associated with 
           service in the Persian Gulf during the Persian Gulf War.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1113 of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking out ``or 1117'' each place it appears and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``1117, or 1118''; and
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking out ``or 1116'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``, 1116, or 1118''.

    (c) Compensation for Undiagnosed Gulf War Illnesses.--Section 1117 
of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
        subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-745]]

    ``(c)(1) Whenever the Secretary determines under section 1118(c) of 
this title that a presumption of service connection for an undiagnosed 
illness (or combination of undiagnosed illnesses) previously established 
under this section is no longer warranted--
            ``(A) a veteran who was awarded compensation under this 
        section for such illness (or combination of illnesses) on the 
        basis of the presumption shall continue to be entitled to 
        receive compensation under this section on that basis; and
            ``(B) a survivor of a veteran who was awarded dependency and 
        indemnity compensation for the death of a veteran resulting from 
        the disease on the basis of the presumption before that date 
        shall continue to be entitled to receive dependency and 
        indemnity compensation on that basis.

    ``(2) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> This subsection shall cease to be 
effective 10 years after the first day of the fiscal year in which the 
National Academy of Sciences submits to the Secretary the first report 
under section 1603 of the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act of 1998.''.

SEC. 1603. <<NOTE: 38 USC 1117 note.>> AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL ACADEMY 
            OF SCIENCES.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to provide for the 
National Academy of Sciences, an independent nonprofit scientific 
organization with appropriate expertise, to review and evaluate the 
available scientific evidence regarding associations between illnesses 
and exposure to toxic agents, environmental or wartime hazards, or 
preventive medicines or vaccines associated with Gulf War service.
    (b) Agreement.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall seek to 
enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences for the 
Academy to perform the activities covered by this section. The Secretary 
shall seek to enter into the agreement not later than two months after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Identification of Agents and Illnesses.--(1) Under the agreement 
under subsection (b), the National Academy of Sciences shall--
            (A) identify the biological, chemical, or other toxic 
        agents, environmental or wartime hazards, or preventive 
        medicines or vaccines to which members of the Armed Forces who 
        served in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the 
        Persian Gulf War may have been exposed by reason of such 
        service; and
            (B) identify the illnesses (including diagnosed illnesses 
        and undiagnosed illnesses) that are manifest in such members.

    (2) In identifying illnesses under paragraph (1)(B), the Academy 
shall review and summarize the relevant scientific evidence regarding 
illnesses among the members described in paragraph (1)(A) and among 
other appropriate populations of individuals, including mortality, 
symptoms, and adverse reproductive health outcomes among such members 
and individuals.
    (d) Initial Consideration of Specific Agents.--(1) In identifying 
under subsection (c) the agents, hazards, or preventive medicines or 
vaccines to which members of the Armed Forces may have been exposed for 
purposes of the first report under subsection (i), the National Academy 
of Sciences shall consider, within the first six months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the following:
            (A) The following organophosphorous pesticides:
                    (i) Chlorpyrifos.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-746]]

                    (ii) Diazinon.
                    (iii) Dichlorvos.
                    (iv) Malathion.
            (B) The following carbamate pesticides:
                    (i) Proxpur.
                    (ii) Carbaryl.
                    (iii) Methomyl.
            (C) The carbamate pyridostigmine bromide used as nerve agent 
        prophylaxis.
            (D) The following chlorinated hydrocarbon and other 
        pesticides and repellents:
                    (i) Lindane.
                    (ii) Pyrethrins.
                    (iii) Permethrins.
                    (iv) Rodenticides (bait).
                    (v) Repellent (DEET).
            (E) The following low-level nerve agents and precursor 
        compounds at exposure levels below those which produce 
        immediately apparent incapacitating symptoms:
                    (i) Sarin.
                    (ii) Tabun.
            (F) The following synthetic chemical compounds:
                    (i) Mustard agents at levels below those which cause 
                immediate blistering.
                    (ii) Volatile organic compounds.
                    (iii) Hydrazine.
                    (iv) Red fuming nitric acid.
                    (v) Solvents.
                    (vi) Uranium.
            (G) The following ionizing radiation:
                    (i) Depleted uranium.
                    (ii) Microwave radiation.
                    (iii) Radio frequency radiation.
            (H) The following environmental particulates and pollutants:
                    (i) Hydrogen sulfide.
                    (ii) Oil fire byproducts.
                    (iii) Diesel heater fumes.
                    (iv) Sand micro-particles.
            (I) Diseases endemic to the region (including the 
        following):
                    (i) Leishmaniasis.
                    (ii) Sandfly fever.
                    (iii) Pathogenic escherechia coli.
                    (iv) Shigellosis.
            (J) Time compressed administration of multiple live, 
        `attenuated', and toxoid vaccines.

    (2) The consideration of agents, hazards, and medicines and vaccines 
under paragraph (1) shall not preclude the Academy from identifying 
other agents, hazards, or medicines or vaccines to which members of the 
Armed
Forces may have been exposed for purposes of any report under subsection 
(i).

    (3) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than six months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Academy shall submit to the designated 
congressional committees a report specifying the agents, hazards, and 
medicines and vaccines considered under paragraph (1).

    (e) Determinations of Associations Between Agents and Illnesses.--
(1) For each agent, hazard, or medicine or vaccine

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-747]]

and illness identified under subsection (c), the National Academy of 
Sciences shall determine, to the extent that available scientific data 
permit meaningful determinations--
            (A) whether a statistical association exists between 
        exposure to the agent, hazard, or medicine or vaccine and the 
        illness, taking into account the strength of the scientific 
        evidence and the appropriateness of the scientific methodology 
        used to detect the association;
            (B) the increased risk of the illness among human or animal 
        populations exposed to the agent, hazard, or medicine or 
        vaccine; and
            (C) whether a plausible biological mechanism or other 
        evidence of a causal relationship exists between exposure to the 
        agent, hazard, or medicine or vaccine and the illness.

    (2) The Academy shall include in its reports under subsection (i) a 
full discussion of the scientific evidence and reasoning that led to its 
conclusions under this subsection.
    (f) Review of Potential Treatment Models for Certain Illnesses.--
Under the agreement under subsection (b), the National Academy of 
Sciences shall separately review, for each chronic undiagnosed illness 
identified under subsection (c)(1)(B) and for any other chronic illness 
that the Academy determines to warrant such review, the available 
scientific data in order to identify empirically valid models of 
treatment for such illnesses which employ successful treatment 
modalities for populations with similar symptoms.
    (g) Recommendations for Additional Scientific Studies.--(1) Under 
the agreement under subsection (b), the National Academy of Sciences 
shall make any recommendations that it considers appropriate for 
additional scientific studies (including studies relating to treatment 
models) to resolve areas of continuing scientific uncertainty relating 
to the health consequences of exposure to toxic agents, environmental or 
wartime hazards, or preventive medicines or vaccines associated with 
Gulf War service.
    (2) In making recommendations for additional studies, the Academy 
shall consider the available scientific data, the value and relevance of 
the information that could result from such studies, and the cost and 
feasibility of carrying out such studies.
    (h) Subsequent Reviews.--(1) Under the agreement under subsection 
(b), the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct on a periodic and 
ongoing basis additional reviews of the evidence and data relating to 
its activities under this section.
    (2) As part of each review under this subsection, the Academy 
shall--
            (A) conduct as comprehensive a review as is practicable of 
        the evidence referred to in subsection (c) and the data referred 
        to in subsections (e), (f), and (g) that became available since 
        the last review of such evidence and data under this section; 
        and
            (B) make determinations under the subsections referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) on the basis of the results of such review and 
        all other reviews previously conducted for purposes of this 
        section.

    (i) Reports.--(1) Under the agreement under subsection (b), the 
National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the committees and 
officials referred to in paragraph (5) periodic written reports 
regarding the Academy's activities under the agreement.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-748]]

    (2) The first report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted not 
later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act. That 
report shall include--
            (A) the determinations and discussion referred to in 
        subsection (e);
            (B) the results of the review of models of treatment under 
        subsection (f); and
            (C) any recommendations of the Academy under subsection (g).

    (3) Reports shall be submitted under this subsection at least once 
every two years, as measured from the date of the report under paragraph 
(2).
    (4) In any report under this subsection (other than the report under 
paragraph (2)), the Academy may specify an absence of meaningful 
developments in the scientific or medical community with respect to the 
activities of the Academy under this section during the 2-year period 
ending on the date of such report.

    (5) Reports under this subsection shall be submitted to the 
following:
            (A) The designated congressional committees.
            (B) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (C) The Secretary of Defense.
      (j) Sunset.--This section shall cease to be effective 10 years 
after the last day of the fiscal year in which the National Academy of 
Sciences submits the first report under subsection (i).
      (k) Alternative Contract Scientific Organization.--(1) If the 
Secretary is unable within the time period set forth in subsection (b) 
to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences for the 
purposes of this section on terms acceptable to the Secretary, the 
Secretary shall seek to enter into an agreement for purposes of this 
section with another appropriate scientific organization that is not 
part of the Government, operates as a not-for-profit entity, and has 
expertise and objectivity comparable to that of the National Academy of 
Sciences.
      (2) If the Secretary enters into an agreement with another 
organization under this subsection, any reference in this section and 
section 1118 of title 38, United States Code (as added by section 
1602(a)), to the National Academy of Sciences shall be treated as a 
reference to such other organization.

SEC. 1604. <<NOTE: 38 USC 1117 note.>> REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS 
            OF LAW.
      In the event of the enactment, before, on, or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, of section 101 of the Veterans Programs 
Enhancement Act of 1998, or any similar provision of law enacted during 
the second session of the 105th Congress requiring an agreement with the 
National Academy of Sciences regarding an evaluation of health 
consequences of service in Southwest Asia during the Persian Gulf War, 
such section 101 (or other provision of law) shall be treated as if 
never enacted, and shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 1605. <<NOTE: 38 USC 1117 note.>> DEFINITIONS.
      In this title:
            (1) The term ``toxic agent, environmental or wartime hazard, 
        or preventive medicine or vaccine associated with Gulf War 
        service'' means a biological, chemical, or other toxic agent, 
        environmental or wartime hazard, or preventive medicine or 
        vaccine that is known or presumed to be associated with service

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-749]]

        in the Armed Forces in the Southwest Asia theater of operations 
        during the Persian Gulf War, whether such association arises as 
        a result of single, repeated, or sustained exposure and whether 
        such association arises through exposure singularly or in 
        combination.
            (2) The term ``designated congressional committees'' means 
        the following:
                    (A) The Committees on Veterans' Affairs and Armed 
                Services of the Senate.
                    (B) The Committees on Veterans' Affairs and National 
                Security of the House of Representatives.
            (3) The term ``Persian Gulf War'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101(33) of title 38, United States Code.

    TITLE <<NOTE: Government Paperwork Elimination Act. 44 USC 3504 
note.>> XVII--GOVERNMENT PAPERWORK ELIMINATION ACT

SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.

      This title may be cited as the ``Government Paperwork Elimination 
Act''.

SEC. 1702. AUTHORITY OF OMB TO PROVIDE FOR ACQUISITION AND USE OF 
            ALTERNATIVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES BY EXECUTIVE AGENCIES.

      Section 3504(a)(1)(B)(vi) of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
                          ``(vi) the acquisition and use of information 
                      technology, including alternative information 
                      technologies that provide for electronic 
                      submission, maintenance, or disclosure of 
                      information as a substitute for paper and for the 
                      use and acceptance of electronic signatures.''.

SEC. 1703. PROCEDURES FOR USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES BY 
            EXECUTIVE AGENCIES.

      (a) In General.--In order to fulfill the responsibility to 
administer the functions assigned under chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code, the provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions 
D and E of Public Law 104-106) and the amendments made by that Act, and 
the provisions of this title, the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget shall, in consultation with the National Telecommunications 
and Information Administration and not later than 18 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, develop procedures for the use and 
acceptance of electronic signatures by Executive agencies.
      (b) Requirements for Procedures.--(1) The procedures developed 
under subsection (a)--
            (A) shall be compatible with standards and technology for 
        electronic signatures that are generally used in commerce and 
        industry and by State governments;
            (B) may not inappropriately favor one industry or 
        technology;
            (C) shall ensure that electronic signatures are as reliable 
        as is appropriate for the purpose in question and keep intact 
        the information submitted;
            (D) shall provide for the electronic acknowledgment of 
        electronic forms that are successfully submitted; and
            (E) shall, to the extent feasible and appropriate, require 
        an Executive agency that anticipates receipt by electronic

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-750]]

        means of 50,000 or more submittals of a particular form to take 
        all steps necessary to ensure that multiple methods of 
        electronic signatures are available for the submittal of such 
        form.
      (2) The Director shall ensure the compatibility of the procedures 
under paragraph (1)(A) in consultation with appropriate private bodies 
and State government entities that set standards for the use and 
acceptance of electronic signatures.

SEC. 1704. DEADLINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION BY EXECUTIVE AGENCIES OF 
            PROCEDURES FOR USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES.

      In order to fulfill the responsibility to administer the functions 
assigned under chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, the 
provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions D and E of Public 
Law 104-106) and the amendments made by that Act, and the provisions of 
this title, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
ensure that, commencing not later than five years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, Executive agencies provide--
            (1) for the option of the electronic maintenance, 
        submission, or disclosure of information, when practicable as a 
        substitute for paper; and
            (2) for the use and acceptance of electronic signatures, 
        when practicable.

SEC. 1705. ELECTRONIC STORAGE AND FILING OF EMPLOYMENT FORMS.

    In order to fulfill the responsibility to administer the functions 
assigned under chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, the 
provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (divisions D and E of Public 
Law 104-106) and the amendments made by that Act, and the provisions of 
this title, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, 
not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
develop procedures to permit private employers to store and file 
electronically with Executive agencies forms containing information 
pertaining to the employees of such employers.

SEC. 1706. STUDY ON USE OF ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES.

    (a) Ongoing Study Required.--In order to fulfill the responsibility 
to administer the functions assigned under chapter 35 of title 44, 
United States Code, the provisions of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 
(divisions D and E of Public Law 104-106) and the amendments made by 
that Act, and the provisions of this title, the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget shall, in cooperation with the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration, conduct an ongoing 
study of the use of electronic signatures under this title on--
            (1) paperwork reduction and electronic commerce;
            (2) individual privacy; and
            (3) the security and authenticity of transactions.

    (b) Reports.--The Director shall submit to Congress on a periodic 
basis a report describing the results of the study carried out under 
subsection (a).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-751]]

SEC. 1707. ENFORCEABILITY AND LEGAL EFFECT OF ELECTRONIC RECORDS.

    Electronic records submitted or maintained in accordance with 
procedures developed under this title, or electronic signatures or other 
forms of electronic authentication used in accordance with such 
procedures, shall not be denied legal effect, validity, or 
enforceability because such records are in electronic form.

SEC. 1708. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.

    Except as provided by law, information collected in the provision of 
electronic signature services for communications with an executive 
agency, as provided by this title, shall only be used or disclosed by 
persons who obtain, collect, or maintain such information as a business 
or government practice, for the purpose of facilitating such 
communications, or with the prior affirmative consent of the person 
about whom the information pertains.

SEC. 1709. APPLICATION WITH INTERNAL REVENUE LAWS.

    No provision of this title shall apply to the Department of the 
Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service to the extent that such 
provision--
            (1) involves the administration of the internal revenue 
        laws; or
            (2) conflicts with any provision of the Internal Revenue 
        Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 or the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986.

SEC. 1710. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title:
            (1) Electronic signature.--The term ``electronic signature'' 
        means a method of signing an electronic message that--
                    (A) identifies and authenticates a particular person 
                as the source of the electronic message; and
                    (B) indicates such person's approval of the 
                information contained in the electronic message.
            (2) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 105 of title 5, United States 
        Code.

DIVISION <<NOTE: Drug Demand Reduction Act. 21 USC 1801 note.>> D--DRUG 
DEMAND REDUCTION ACT

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This division may be cited as the ``Drug Demand 
Reduction Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

   TITLE I--TARGETED SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT PROGRAMS

           Subtitle A--National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Requirement <<NOTE: 21 USC 1801.>> to conduct national media 
           campaign.

Sec. 103. Use of funds.
Sec. 104. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 105. Authorization of appropriations.

                 Subtitle B--Drug-Free Prisons and Jails

Sec. 111. Short title.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-752]]

Sec. 112. Purpose.
Sec. 113. Program authorization.
Sec. 114. Grant application.
Sec. 115. Uses of funds.
Sec. 116. Evaluation and recommendation report to Congress.
Sec. 117. Definitions.
Sec. 118. Authorization of appropriations.

             Subtitle C--Drug-Free Schools Quality Assurance

Sec. 121. Short title.
Sec. 122. Amendment to Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act.

             TITLE II--STATEMENT OF NATIONAL ANTIDRUG POLICY

      Subtitle A--Congressional Leadership in Community Coalitions

Sec. 201. Sense of Congress.

             Subtitle B--Rejection of Legalization of Drugs

Sec. 211. Sense of Congress.

  Subtitle C--Report on Streamlining Federal Prevention and Treatment 
                                 Efforts

Sec. 221. Report on streamlining Federal prevention and treatment 
           efforts.

   TITLE <<NOTE: Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998.>> I--TARGETED 
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT PROGRAMS

           Subtitle A--National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1801 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1801.>> REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT NATIONAL MEDIA 
            CAMPAIGN.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy (in this subtitle referred to as the ``Director'') shall conduct 
a national media campaign in accordance with this subtitle for the 
purpose of reducing and preventing drug abuse among young people in the 
United States.
    (b) Local Target Requirement.--The Director shall, to the maximum 
extent feasible, use amounts made available to carry out this subtitle 
under section 105 for media that focuses on, or includes specific 
information on, prevention or treatment resources for consumers within 
specific local areas.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1802.>> USE OF FUNDS.

    (a) Authorized Uses.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts made available to carry out this 
        subtitle for the support of the national media campaign may only 
        be used for--
                    (A) the purchase of media time and space;
                    (B) talent reuse payments;
                    (C) out-of-pocket advertising production costs;
                    (D) testing and evaluation of advertising;
                    (E) evaluation of the effectiveness of the media 
                campaign;
                    (F) the negotiated fees for the winning bidder on 
                request for proposals issued by the Office of National 
                Drug Control Policy;
                    (G) partnerships with community, civic, and 
                professional groups, and government organizations 
                related to the media campaign; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-753]]

                    (H) entertainment industry collaborations to fashion 
                antidrug messages in motion pictures, television 
                programing, popular music, interactive (Internet and 
                new) media projects and activities, public information, 
                news media outreach, and corporate sponsorship and 
                participation.
            (2) Advertising.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
        Director shall devote sufficient funds to the advertising 
        portion of the national media campaign to meet the stated reach 
        and frequency goals of the campaign.

    (b) Prohibitions.--None of the amounts made available under section 
105 may be obligated or expended--
            (1) to supplant current antidrug community based coalitions;
            (2) to supplant current pro bono public service time donated 
        by national and local broadcasting networks;
            (3) for partisan political purposes; or
            (4) to fund media campaigns that feature any elected 
        officials, persons seeking elected office, cabinet level 
        officials, or other Federal officials employed pursuant to 
        section 213 of Schedule C of title 5, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, unless the Director provides advance notice to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate, the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary 
        of the Senate.

    (c) Matching Requirement.--Amounts made available under section 105 
should be matched by an equal amount of non-Federal funds for the 
national media campaign, or be matched with in-kind contributions to the 
campaign of the same value.

SEC. 104. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1803.>> REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    The Director shall--
            (1) submit to Congress on an annual basis a report on the 
        activities for which amounts made available under section 105 
        have been obligated during the preceding year, including 
        information for each quarter of such year, and on the specific 
        parameters of the national media campaign; and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, submit to Congress a report on the effectiveness of 
        the national media campaign based on measurable outcomes 
        provided to Congress previously.

SEC. 105. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1804.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy to carry out this subtitle $195,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1999 through 2002.

 Subtitle <<NOTE: Drug-Free Prisons and Jails Act of 1998. 42 USC 3751 
note.>> B--Drug-Free Prisons and Jails

SEC. 111. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Drug-Free Prisons and Jails Act 
of 1998''.

SEC. 112. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to provide for the establishment of 
model programs for comprehensive treatment of substance-involved 
offenders in the criminal justice system to reduce drug abuse and drug-
related crime, and reduce the costs of the criminal

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-754]]

justice system, that can be successfully replicated by States and local 
units of government through a comprehensive evaluation.

SEC. 113. PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance 
shall establish a model substance abuse treatment program for substance-
involved offenders by--
            (1) providing financial assistance to grant recipients 
        selected in accordance with section 114(b); and
            (2) evaluating the success of programs conducted pursuant to 
        this subtitle.

    (b) Grant Awards.--The Director may award not more than 5 grants to 
units of local government and not more than 5 grants to States.
    (c) Administrative Costs.--Not more than 5 percent of a grant award 
made pursuant to this subtitle may be used for administrative costs.

SEC. 114. GRANT APPLICATION.

    (a) Contents.--An application submitted by a unit of local 
government or a State for a grant award under this subtitle shall 
include each of the following:
            (1) Strategy.--A strategy to coordinate programs and 
        services for substance-involved offenders provided by the unit 
        of local government or the State, as the case may be, developed 
        in consultation with representatives from all components of the 
        criminal justice system within the jurisdiction, including 
        judges, law enforcement personnel, prosecutors, corrections 
        personnel, probation personnel, parole personnel, substance 
        abuse treatment personnel, and substance abuse prevention 
        personnel.
            (2) Certification.--A certification that--
                    (A) Federal funds made available under this subtitle 
                will not be used to supplant State or local funds, but 
                will be used to increase the amounts of such funds that 
                would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made 
                available for law enforcement activities; and
                    (B) the programs developed pursuant to this subtitle 
                meet all requirements of this subtitle.

    (b) Review and Approval.--Subject to section 113(b), the Director 
shall approve applications and make grant awards to units of local 
governments and States that show the most promise for accomplishing the 
purposes of this subtitle consistent with the provisions of section 115.

SEC. 115. USES OF FUNDS.

    A unit of local government or State that receives a grant award 
under this subtitle shall use such funds to provide comprehensive 
treatment programs to inmates in prisons or jails, including not less 
than 3 of the following:
            (1) Tailored treatment programs to meet the special needs of 
        different types of substance-involved offenders.
            (2) Random and frequent drug testing, including a system of 
        sanctions.
            (3) Training and assistance for corrections officers and 
        personnel to assist substance-involved offenders in correctional 
        facilities.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-755]]

            (4) Clinical assessment of incoming substance-involved 
        offenders.
            (5) Availability of religious and spiritual activity and 
        counseling to provide an environment that encourages recovery 
        from substance involvement in correctional facilities.
            (6) Education and vocational training.
            (7) A substance-free correctional facility policy.

SEC. 116. EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATION REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Evaluation.--
             <<NOTE: Contracts.>> (1) In general.--The Director shall 
        enter into a contract, with an evaluating agency that has 
        demonstrated experience in the evaluation of substance abuse 
        treatment, to conduct an evaluation that incorporates the 
        criteria described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Evaluation criteria.--The Director, in consultation with 
        the Directors of the appropriate National Institutes of Health, 
        shall establish minimum criteria for evaluating each program. 
        Such criteria shall include--
                    (A) reducing substance abuse among participants;
                    (B) reducing recidivism among participants;
                    (C) cost effectiveness of providing services to 
                participants; and
                    (D) a data collection system that will produce data 
                comparable to that used by the Office of Applied Studies 
                of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
                Administration and the Bureau of Justice Statistics of 
                the Office of Justice Programs.

    (b) Report.--The Director shall submit to the appropriate 
committees, at the same time as the President's budget for fiscal year 
2001 is submitted, a report that--
            (1) describes the activities funded by grant awards under 
        this subtitle;
            (2) includes the evaluation submitted pursuant to subsection 
        (a); and
            (3) makes recommendations regarding revisions to the 
        authorization of the program, including extension, expansion, 
        application requirements, reduction, and termination.

SEC. 117. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Appropriate committees.--The term ``appropriate 
        committees'' means the Committees on the Judiciary and the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Bureau of Justice Assistance.
            (3) Substance-involved offender.--The term ``substance-
        involved offender'' means an individual under the supervision of 
        a State or local criminal justice system, awaiting trial or 
        serving a sentence imposed by the criminal justice system, who--
                    (A) violated or has been arrested for violating a 
                drug or alcohol law;
                    (B) was under the influence of alcohol or an illegal 
                drug at the time the crime was committed;
                    (C) stole property to buy illegal drugs; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-756]]

                    (D) has a history of substance abuse and addiction.
            (4) Unit of local government.--The term ``unit of local 
        government'' means any city, county, township, town, borough, 
        parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision 
        of a State, an Indian tribe which performs law enforcement 
        functions as determined by the Secretary of the Interior and any 
        agency of the District of Columbia government or the United 
        States Government performing law enforcement functions in and 
        for the District of Columbia, and the Trust Territory of the 
        Pacific Islands.

SEC. 118. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this subtitle from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund as 
authorized by title 31 of the Violent Crime and Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14211)--
            (1) for fiscal year 1999, $30,000,000; and
            (2) for fiscal year 2000, $20,000,000.

    (b) Reservation.--The Director may reserve each fiscal year not more 
than 20 percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) for 
activities required under section 116.

 Subtitle <<NOTE: Drug-Free Schools Quality Assurance Act. 20 USC 6301 
note.>> C--Drug-Free Schools Quality Assurance

SEC. 121. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Drug-Free Schools Quality 
Assurance Act''.

SEC. 122. AMENDMENT TO SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITIES ACT.

    Subpart 3 of title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7141 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 4134. <<NOTE: 20 USC 7144.>> QUALITY RATING.

    ``(a) In General.--The chief executive officer of each State, or in 
the case of a State in which the constitution or law of such State 
designates another individual, entity, or agency in the State to be 
responsible for education activities, such individual, entity, or 
agency, is authorized and encouraged--
            ``(1) to establish a standard of quality for drug, alcohol, 
        and tobacco prevention programs implemented in public elementary 
        schools and secondary schools in the State in accordance with 
        subsection (b); and
            ``(2) to identify and designate, upon application by a 
        public elementary school or secondary school, any such school 
        that achieves such standard as a quality program school.

    ``(b) Criteria.--The standard referred to in subsection (a) shall 
address, at a minimum--
            ``(1) a comparison of the rate of illegal use of drugs, 
        alcohol, and tobacco by students enrolled in the school for a 
        period of time to be determined by the chief executive officer 
        of the State;
            ``(2) the rate of suspensions or expulsions of students 
        enrolled in the school for drug, alcohol, or tobacco-related 
        offenses;
            ``(3) the effectiveness of the drug, alcohol, or tobacco 
        prevention program as proven by research;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-757]]

            ``(4) the involvement of parents and community members in 
        the design of the drug, alcohol, and tobacco prevention program; 
        and
            ``(5) the extent of review of existing community drug, 
        alcohol, and tobacco prevention programs before implementation 
        of the public school program.

    ``(c) Request for Quality Program School Designation.--A school that 
wishes to receive a quality program school designation shall submit a 
request and documentation of compliance with this section to the chief 
executive officer of the State or the individual, entity, or agency 
described in subsection (a), as the case may be.
    ``(d) Public Notification.--Not less than once a year, the chief 
executive officer of each State or the individual, entity, or agency 
described in subsection (a), as the case may be, shall make available to 
the public a list of the names of each public school in the State that 
has received a quality program school designation in accordance with 
this section.''.

             TITLE II--STATEMENT OF NATIONAL ANTIDRUG POLICY

      Subtitle A--Congressional Leadership in Community Coalitions

SEC. 201. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Illegal drug use is dangerous to the physical well-being 
        of the Nation's youth.
            (2) Illegal drug use can destroy the lives of the Nation's 
        youth by diminishing their sense of morality and with it 
        everything in life that is important and worthwhile.
            (3) According to recently released national surveys, drug 
        use among the Nation's youth remains at alarmingly high levels.
            (4) National leadership is critical to conveying to the 
        Nation's youth the message that drug use is dangerous and wrong.
            (5) National leadership can help mobilize every sector of 
        the community to support the implementation of comprehensive, 
        sustainable, and effective programs to reduce drug abuse.
            (6) As of September 1, 1998, 76 Members of the House of 
        Representatives were establishing community-based antidrug 
        coalitions in their congressional districts or were actively 
        supporting such coalitions that already existed.
            (7) The individual Members of the House of Representatives 
        can best help their constituents prevent drug use among the 
        Nation's youth by establishing community-based antidrug 
        coalitions in their congressional districts or by actively 
        supporting such coalitions that already exist.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
individual Members of the House of Representatives, including the 
Delegates and the Resident Commissioner, should establish community-
based antidrug coalitions in their congressional districts or should 
actively support any such coalitions that have been established.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-758]]

             Subtitle B--Rejection of Legalization of Drugs

SEC. 211. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Illegal drug use is harmful and wrong.
            (2) Illegal drug use can kill the individuals involved or 
        cause the individuals to hurt or kill others, and such use 
        strips the individuals of their moral sense.
            (3) The greatest threat presented by such use is to the 
        youth of the United States, who are illegally using drugs in 
        increasingly greater numbers.
            (4) The people of the United States are more concerned about 
        illegal drug use and crimes associated with such use than with 
        any other current social problem.
            (5) Efforts to legalize or otherwise legitimize drug use 
        present a message to the youth of the United States that drug 
        use is acceptable.
            (6) Article VI, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United 
        States states that ``[t]his Constitution, and the laws of the 
        United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all 
        treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of 
        the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and 
        judges in every state shall be bound thereby, any thing in the 
        Constitution or laws of any state to the contrary 
        notwithstanding.''.
            (7) The courts of the United States have repeatedly found 
        that any State law that conflicts with a Federal law or treaty 
        is preempted by such law or treaty.
            (8) The Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) 
        strictly regulates the use and possession of drugs.
            (9) The United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in 
        Narcotic Drugs and Psychotrophic Substances Treaty similarly 
        regulates the use and possession of drugs.
            (10) Any attempt to authorize under State law an activity 
        prohibited under such Treaty or the Controlled Substances Act 
        would conflict with that Treaty or Act.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the several States, and the citizens of such States, 
        should reject the legalization of drugs
through legislation, ballot proposition, constitutional amendment, or 
any other means; and
            (2) each State should make efforts to be a drug-free State.

  Subtitle C--Report on Streamlining Federal Prevention and Treatment 
                                 Efforts

SEC. 221. REPORT ON STREAMLINING FEDERAL <<NOTE: 21 USC 1703 
            note.>> PREVENTION AND TREATMENT EFFORTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the efforts of the Federal Government to reduce the 
        demand for illegal drugs in the United States are frustrated by 
        the fragmentation of those efforts across multiple departments 
        and agencies; and
            (2) improvement of those efforts can best be achieved 
        through consolidation and coordination.

    (b) Report Requirement.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-759]]

            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of National 
        Drug Control Policy shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
        committees a report evaluating options for increasing the 
        efficacy of drug prevention and treatment programs and 
        activities by the Federal Government. Such option shall include 
        the merits of a consolidation of programs into a single agency, 
        transferring programs from 1 agency to another, and improving 
        coordinating mechanisms and authorities. The report shall also 
        include a thorough review of the activities and potential 
        consolidation of existing Federal drug information 
        clearinghouses.
            (2) Recommendation and explanatory statement.--The study 
        submitted under paragraph (1) shall identify options that are 
        determined by the Director to have merit, and an explanation 
        which options should be implemented.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized to 
        be appropriated to the Office of National Drug Control Policy to 
        carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for contracting, policy 
        research, and related costs.

    (c) Appropriate Committees Defined.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees'' means the Committee on Appropriations, the 
Committee on Commerce, and the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations, 
and Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Methampheta- mine Trafficking Penalty Enhancement Act 
   of 1998. 21 USC 801 note.>> E--METHAMPHETAMINE TRAFFICKING PENALTY 
ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1998

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Methamphetamine Trafficking 
Penalty Enhancement Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. METHAMPHETAMINE PENALTY INCREASES.

    (a) Controlled Substances Act.--Section 401(b)(1) of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(viii)--
                    (A) by striking ``100 grams'' and inserting ``50 
                grams''; and
                    (B) by striking ``1 kilogram'' and inserting ``500 
                grams''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(viii)--
                    (A) by striking ``10 grams'' and inserting ``5 
                grams''; and
                    (B) by striking ``100 grams'' and inserting ``50 
                grams''.

    (b) Controlled Substances Import and Export Act.--Section 1010(b) of 
the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 960(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(H)--
                    (A) by striking ``100 grams'' and inserting ``50 
                grams''; and
                    (B) by striking ``1 kilogram'' and inserting ``500 
                grams''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(H)--
                    (A) by striking ``10 grams'' and inserting ``5 
                grams''; and
                    (B) by striking ``100 grams'' and inserting ``50 
                grams''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-760]]

SEC. 3. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE USE OF FUNDS UNDER THE VIOLENT 
            OFFENDER INCARCERATION AND TRUTH-IN-SENTENCING GRANTS 
            PROGRAM.

    Section 20105(b) of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994 <<NOTE: 42 USC 13705.>> is amended to read as follows:

    ``(b) Additional Requirements.--
            ``(1) Eligibility for grant.--To be eligible to receive a 
        grant under section 20103 or section 20104, a State shall--
                    ``(A) provide assurances to the Attorney General 
                that the State has implemented or will implement not 
                later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of 
                this subtitle, policies that provide for the recognition 
                of the rights of crime victims; and
                    ``(B) subject to the limitation of paragraph (2), no 
                later than September 1, 2000, consider a program of drug 
                testing and intervention for appropriate categories of 
                convicted offenders during periods of incarceration and 
                post-incarceration and criminal justice supervision, 
                with sanctions including denial or revocation of release 
                for positive drug tests, consistent with guidelines 
                issued by the Attorney General.
            ``(2) Use of funds.--Beginning in fiscal year 1999, not more 
        than 10 percent of the funds provided under section 20103 or 
        section 20104 of this subtitle may be applied to the cost of 
        offender drug testing and intervention programs during periods 
        of incarceration and post-incarceration criminal justice 
        supervision, consistent with guidelines issued by the Attorney 
        General. Further, such funds may be used by the States to pay 
        the costs of providing to the Attorney General a baseline study 
        on their prison drug abuse problem. Such studies shall be 
        consistent with guidelines issued by the Attorney General.''.

         DIVISION F--NOT LEGALIZING MARIJUANA FOR MEDICINAL USE

      It is the sense of the Congress that--
          (1) certain drugs are listed on Schedule I of the Controlled 
        Substances Act if they have a high potential for abuse, lack any 
        currently accepted medical use in treatment, and are unsafe, 
        even under medical supervision;
          (2) the consequences of illegal use of Schedule I drugs are 
        well documented, particularly with regard to physical health, 
        highway safety, and criminal activity;
          (3) pursuant to section 401 of the Controlled Substances Act, 
        it is illegal to manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana, 
        heroin, LSD, and more than 100 other Schedule I drugs;
          (4) pursuant to section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug and 
        Cosmetic Act, before any drug can be approved as a medication in 
        the United States, it must meet extensive scientific and medical 
        standards established by the Food and Drug Administration to 
        ensure it is safe and effective;
          (5) marijuana and other Schedule I drugs have not been 
        approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat any 
        disease or condition;
          (6) the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act already prohibits 
        the sale of any unapproved drug, including marijuana, that

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-761]]

        has not been proven safe and effective for medical purposes and 
        grants the Food and Drug Administration the authority to enforce 
        this prohibition through seizure and other civil action, as well 
        as through criminal penalties;
          (7) marijuana use by children in grades 8 through 12 declined 
        steadily from 1980 to 1992, but, from 1992 to 1996, has 
        dramatically increased by 253 percent among 8th graders, 151 
        percent among 10th graders, and 84 percent among 12th graders, 
        and the average age of first-time use of marijuana is now 
        younger than it has ever been;
          (8) according to the 1997 survey by the Center on Addiction 
        and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, 500,000 8th graders 
        began using marijuana in the 6th and 7th grades;
          (9) according to that same 1997 survey, youths between the 
        ages of 12 and 17 who use marijuana are 85 times more likely to 
        use cocaine than those who abstain from marijuana, and 60 
        percent of adolescents who use marijuana before the age of 15 
        will later use cocaine; and
          (10) the rate of illegal drug use among youth is linked to 
        their perceptions of the health and safety risks of those drugs, 
        and the ambiguous cultural messages about marijuana use are 
        contributing to a growing acceptance of marijuana use among 
        children and teenagers;
          (11) Congress continues to support the existing Federal legal 
        process for determining the safety and efficacy of drugs and 
        opposes efforts to circumvent this process by legalizing 
        marijuana, and other Schedule I drugs, for medicinal use without 
        valid scientific evidence and the approval of the Food and Drug 
        Administration; and
          (12) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act--
                  (A) <<NOTE: Reports.>> the Attorney General shall 
                submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House 
                of Representatives and the Senate a report on--
                        (i) the total quantity of marijuana eradicated 
                      in the United States during the period from 1992 
                      through 1997; and
                        (ii) the annual number of arrests and 
                      prosecutions for Federal marijuana offenses during 
                      the period described in clause (i); and
                  (B) <<NOTE: Reports.>> the Commissioner of Foods and 
                Drugs shall submit to the Committee on Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and 
                Human Resources of the Senate a report on the specific 
                efforts underway to enforce sections 304 and 505 of the 
                Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act with respect to 
                marijuana and other Schedule I drugs.

    DIVISION <<NOTE: Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 
 1998. 22 USC 6501 note.>> G--FOREIGN AFFAIRS REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING 
ACT OF 1998

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

      This division may be cited as the ``Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-762]]

SEC. 1002. ORGANIZATION OF DIVISION INTO SUBDIVISIONS; TABLE OF 
            CONTENTS.

      (a) Divisions.--This division is organized into three subdivisions 
as follows:
          (1) Subdivision a.--Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act 
        of 1998.
          (2) Subdivision b.--Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
        Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999.
          (3) Subdivision c.--United Nations Reform Act of 1998.
      (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

     DIVISION --FOREIGN AFFAIRS REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING ACT OF 1998

Sec. 1001. Short title.
Sec. 1002. Organization of division into subdivisions; table of 
           contents.

        Subdivision A--Consolidation of Foreign Affairs Agencies

                      TITLE XI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1101. Short title.
Sec. 1102. Purposes.
Sec. 1103. Definitions.
Sec. 1104. Report on budgetary cost savings resulting from 
           reorganization.

      TITLE XII--UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY

                      Chapter 1--General Provisions

Sec. 1201. Effective date.

             Chapter 2--Abolition and Transfer of Functions

Sec. 1211. Abolition of United States Arms Control and Disarmament 
           Agency.
Sec. 1212. Transfer of functions to Secretary of State.
Sec. 1213. Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security.

                    Chapter 3--Conforming Amendments

Sec. 1221. References.
Sec. 1222. Repeals.
Sec. 1223. Amendments to the Arms Control and Disarmament Act.
Sec. 1224. Compensation of officers.
Sec. 1225. Additional conforming amendments.

              TITLE XIII--UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY

                      Chapter 1--General Provisions

Sec. 1301. Effective date.

             Chapter 2--Abolition and Transfer of Functions

Sec. 1311. Abolition of United States Information Agency.
Sec. 1312. Transfer of functions.
Sec. 1313. Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy.
Sec. 1314. Abolition of Office of Inspector General of United States 
           Information Agency and transfer of functions.

                  Chapter 3--International Broadcasting

Sec. 1321. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose.
Sec. 1322. Continued existence of Broadcasting Board of Governors.
Sec. 1323. Conforming amendments to the United States International 
           Broadcasting Act of 1994.
Sec. 1324. Amendments to the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act.
Sec. 1325. Amendments to the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act.
Sec. 1326. Transfer of broadcasting related funds, property, and 
           personnel.
Sec. 1327. Savings provisions.
Sec. 1328. Report on the privatization of RFE/RL, Incorporated.

                    Chapter 4--Conforming Amendments

Sec. 1331. References.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-763]]

Sec. 1332. Amendments to title 5, United States Code.
Sec. 1333. Application of certain laws.
Sec. 1334. Abolition of United States Advisory Commission on Public 
           Diplomacy.
Sec. 1335. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1336. Repeals.

  TITLE XIV--UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY

                      Chapter 1--General Provisions

Sec. 1401. Effective date.

             Chapter 2--Abolition and Transfer of Functions

Sec. 1411. Abolition of United States International Development 
           Cooperation Agency.
Sec. 1412. Transfer of functions and authorities.
Sec. 1413. Status of AID.

                    Chapter 3--Conforming Amendments

Sec. 1421. References.
Sec. 1422. Conforming amendments.

             TITLE XV--AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                      Chapter 1--General Provisions

Sec. 1501. Effective date.

           Chapter 2--Reorganization and Transfer of Functions

Sec. 1511. Reorganization of Agency for International Development.

            Chapter 3--Authorities of the Secretary of State

Sec. 1521. Definition of United States assistance.
Sec. 1522. Administrator of AID reporting to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 1523. Assistance programs coordination and oversight.

                          TITLE XVI--TRANSITION

                     Chapter 1--Reorganization Plan

Sec. 1601. Reorganization plan and report.

                   Chapter 2--Reorganization Authority

Sec. 1611. Reorganization authority.
Sec. 1612. Transfer and allocation of appropriations.
Sec. 1613. Transfer, appointment, and assignment of personnel.
Sec. 1614. Incidental transfers.
Sec. 1615. Savings provisions.
Sec. 1616. Authority of Secretary of State to facilitate transition.
Sec. 1617. Final report.

             Subdivision B--Foreign Relations Authorization

                      TITLE XX--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Definition of appropriate congressional committees.

   TITLE XXI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Sec. 2101. Administration of foreign affairs.
Sec. 2102. International commissions.
Sec. 2103. Grants to The Asia Foundation.
Sec. 2104. Voluntary contributions to international organizations.
Sec. 2105. Voluntary contributions to peacekeeping operations.
Sec. 2106. Limitation on United States voluntary contributions to United 
           Nations Development Program.

       TITLE XXII--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

                  Chapter 1--Authorities and Activities

Sec. 2201. Reimbursement of Department of State for assistance to 
           overseas educational facilities.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-764]]

Sec. 2202. Revision of Department of State rewards program.
Sec. 2203. Retention of additional defense trade controls registration 
           fees.
Sec. 2204. Fees for commercial services.
Sec. 2205. Pilot program for foreign affairs reimbursement.
Sec. 2206. Fee for use of diplomatic reception rooms.
Sec. 2207. Budget presentation documents.
Sec. 2208. Office of the Inspector General.
Sec. 2209. Capital Investment Fund.
Sec. 2210. Contracting for local guards services overseas.
Sec. 2211. Authority of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission.
Sec. 2212. Expenses relating to certain international claims and 
           proceedings.
Sec. 2213. Grants to remedy international abductions of children.
Sec. 2214. Counterdrug and anticrime activities of the Department of 
           State.
Sec. 2215. Annual report on overseas surplus properties.
Sec. 2216. Human rights reports.
Sec. 2217. Reports and policy concerning diplomatic immunity.
Sec. 2218. Reaffirming United States international telecommunications 
           policy.
Sec. 2219. Reduction of reporting.

       Chapter 2--Consular Authorities of the Department of State

Sec. 2221. Use of certain passport processing fees for enhanced passport 
           services.
Sec. 2222. Consular officers.
Sec. 2223. Repeal of outdated consular receipt requirements.
Sec. 2224. Elimination of duplicate Federal Register publication for 
           travel advisories.
Sec. 2225. Denial of visas to confiscators of American property. 
Sec. 2226. Inadmissibility of any alien supporting an international 
           child abductor.

                    Chapter 3--Refugees and Migration

              subchapter a--authorization of appropriations

Sec. 2231. Migration and refugee assistance.
                        subchapter b--authorities

Sec. 2241. United States policy regarding the involuntary return of 
           refugees.
Sec. 2242. United States policy with respect to the involuntary return 
           of persons in danger of subjection to torture.
Sec. 2243. Reprogramming of migration and refugee assistance funds.
Sec. 2244. Eligibility for refugee status.
Sec. 2245. Reports to Congress concerning Cuban emigration policies.

  TITLE XXIII--ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE; DEPARTMENT OF 
                  STATE PERSONNEL; THE FOREIGN SERVICE

           Chapter 1--Organization of the Department of State

Sec. 2301. Coordinator for Counterterrorism.
Sec. 2302. Elimination of Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for 
           Burdensharing.
Sec. 2303. Personnel management.
Sec. 2304. Diplomatic security.
Sec. 2305. Number of senior official positions authorized for the 
           Department of State.
Sec. 2306. Nomination of Under Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries of 
           State.

  Chapter 2--Personnel of the Department of State; the Foreign Service

Sec. 2311. Foreign Service reform.
Sec. 2312. Retirement benefits for involuntary separation.
Sec. 2313. Authority of Secretary to separate convicted felons from the 
           Foreign Service.
Sec. 2314. Career counseling.
Sec. 2315. Limitations on management assignments.
Sec. 2316. Availability pay for certain criminal investigators within 
           the Diplomatic Security Service.
Sec. 2317. Nonovertime differential pay.
Sec. 2318. Report concerning minorities and the Foreign Service.

   TITLE XXIV--UNITED STATES INFORMATIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, AND CULTURAL 
                                PROGRAMS

               Chapter 1--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2401. International information activities and educational and 
           cultural exchange programs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-765]]

                  Chapter 2--Authorities and Activities

Sec. 2411. Retention of interest.
Sec. 2412. Use of selected program fees.
Sec. 2413. Muskie Fellowship Program.
Sec. 2414. Working Group on United States Government-Sponsored 
           International Exchanges and Training.
Sec. 2415. Educational and cultural exchanges and scholarships for 
           Tibetans and Burmese.
Sec. 2416. Surrogate broadcasting study.
Sec. 2417. Radio broadcasting to Iran in the Farsi language.
Sec. 2418. Authority to administer summer travel and work programs.
Sec. 2419. Permanent administrative authorities regarding 
           appropriations.
Sec. 2420. Voice of America broadcasts.

    TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OTHER THAN UNITED NATIONS

Sec. 2501. International conferences and contingencies.
Sec. 2502. Restriction relating to United States accession to any new 
           international criminal tribunal.
Sec. 2503. United States membership in the Bureau of the 
           Interparliamentary Union.
Sec. 2504. Service in international organizations.
Sec. 2505. Reports regarding foreign travel.

      TITLE XXVI--UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY

Sec. 2601. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2602. Statutory construction.

               TITLE XXVII--EUROPEAN SECURITY ACT OF 1998

Sec. 2701. Short title.
Sec. 2702. Statement of policy.
Sec. 2703. Authorities relating to NATO enlargement.
Sec. 2704. Sense of Congress with respect to the Treaty on Conventional 
           Armed Forces in Europe.
Sec. 2705. Restrictions and requirements relating to ballistic missile 
           defense.

              TITLE XXVIII--OTHER FOREIGN POLICY PROVISIONS

Sec. 2801. Reports on claims by United States firms against the 
           Government of Saudi Arabia.
Sec. 2802. Reports on determinations under title IV of the Libertad Act.
Sec. 2803. Report on compliance with the Hague Convention on 
           International Child Abduction.
Sec. 2804. Sense of Congress relating to recognition of the Ecumenical 
           Patriarchate by the Government of Turkey.
Sec. 2805. Report on relations with Vietnam.
Sec. 2806. Reports and policy concerning human rights violations in 
           Laos.
Sec. 2807. Report on an alliance against narcotics trafficking in the 
           Western Hemisphere.
Sec. 2808. Congressional statement regarding the accession of Taiwan to 
           the World Trade Organization.
Sec. 2809. Programs or projects of the International Atomic Energy 
           Agency in Cuba.
Sec. 2810. Limitation on assistance to countries aiding Cuba nuclear 
           development.
Sec. 2811. International Fund for Ireland.
Sec. 2812. Support for democratic opposition in Iraq.
Sec. 2813. Development of democracy in the Republic of Serbia.

   SUBDIVISION <<NOTE: Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 
1998.>> A--CONSOLIDATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AGENCIES

                      TITLE XI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6501 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This subdivision may be cited as the ``Foreign Affairs Agencies 
Consolidation Act of 1998''.

SEC. 1102. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6501.>> PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subdivision are--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-766]]

            (1) to strengthen--
                    (A) the coordination of United States foreign 
                policy; and
                    (B) the leading role of the Secretary of State in 
                the formulation and articulation of United States 
                foreign policy;
            (2) to consolidate and reinvigorate the foreign affairs 
        functions of the United States within the Department of State 
        by--
                    (A) abolishing the United States Arms Control and 
                Disarmament Agency, the United States Information 
                Agency, and the United States International Development 
                Cooperation Agency, and transferring the functions of 
                these agencies to the Department of State while 
                preserving the special missions and skills of these 
                agencies;
                    (B) transferring certain functions of the Agency for 
                International Development to the Department of State; 
                and
                    (C) providing for the reorganization of the 
                Department of State to maximize the efficient use of 
                resources, which may lead to budget savings, eliminated 
                redundancy in functions, and improvement in the 
                management of the Department of State;
            (3) to ensure that programs critical to the promotion of 
        United States national interests be maintained;
            (4) to assist congressional efforts to balance the Federal 
        budget and reduce the Federal debt;
            (5) to ensure that the United States maintains effective 
        representation abroad within budgetary restraints; and
            (6) to encourage United States foreign affairs agencies to 
        maintain a high percentage of the best qualified, most competent 
        United States citizens serving in the United States Government.

SEC. 1103. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6502.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this subdivision:
            (1) ACDA.--The term ``ACDA'' means the United States Arms 
        Control and Disarmament Agency.
            (2) AID.--The term ``AID'' means the United States Agency 
        for International Development.
            (3) Agency; federal agency.--The term ``agency'' or 
        ``Federal agency'' means an Executive agency as defined in 
        section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
            (4) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
            (5) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means any 
        of the following agencies: ACDA, USIA, IDCA, and AID.
            (6) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of State.
            (7) Function.--The term ``function'' means any duty, 
        obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, 
        activity, or program.
            (8) IDCA.--The term ``IDCA'' means the United States 
        International Development Cooperation Agency.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-767]]

            (9) Office.--The term ``office'' includes any office, 
        administration, agency, institute, unit, organizational entity, 
        or component thereof.
            (10) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of State.
            (11) USIA.--The term ``USIA'' means the United States 
        Information Agency.

SEC. 1104. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6503.>> REPORT ON BUDGETARY COST SAVINGS 
            RESULTING FROM REORGANIZATION.
      The Secretary of State shall submit a report, together with the 
congressional presentation document for the budget of the Department of 
State for each of the fiscal years 2000 and 2001, to the appropriate 
congressional committees describing the total anticipated and achieved 
cost savings in budget outlays and budget authority related to the 
reorganization implemented under this subdivision, including cost 
savings by each of the following categories:
          (1) Reductions in personnel.
          (2) Administrative consolidation, including procurement.
          (3) Program consolidation.
          (4) Consolidation of real properties and leases.

      TITLE XII--UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY

                      CHAPTER 1--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1201. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6511 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.
      This title, and the amendments made by this title, shall take 
effect on the earlier of--
          (1) April 1, 1999; or
          (2) the date of abolition of the United States Arms Control 
        and Disarmament Agency pursuant to the reorganization plan 
        described in section 1601.

             CHAPTER 2--ABOLITION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS

SEC. 1211. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6511.>> ABOLITION OF UNITED STATES ARMS 
            CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY.
      The United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency is 
abolished.

SEC. 1212. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6512.>> TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS TO SECRETARY OF 
            STATE.
      There are transferred to the Secretary of State all functions of 
the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, 
and all functions of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament 
Agency and any office or component of such agency, under any statute, 
reorganization plan, Executive order, or other provision of law, as of 
the day before the effective date of this title.

SEC. 1213. UNDER SECRETARY FOR ARMS CONTROL AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY.

      Section 1(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2651(b)) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2651a.>> is amended--
          (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting the following:
          ``(1) In general.--There''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-768]]

          (2) by adding at the end the following:
          ``(2) Under secretary for arms control and international 
        security.--There shall be in the Department of State, among the 
        Under Secretaries authorized by paragraph (1), an Under 
        Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, who shall 
        assist the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary in matters related 
        to international security policy, arms control, and 
        nonproliferation. Subject to the direction of the President, the 
        Under Secretary may attend and participate in meetings of the 
        National Security Council in his role as Senior Advisor to the 
        President and the Secretary of State on Arms Control and 
        Nonproliferation Matters.''.

                    CHAPTER 3--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 1221. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6521.>> REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise provided in section 1223 or 1225, any reference 
in any statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, regulation, 
agreement, determination, or other official document or proceeding to--
            (1) the Director of the United States Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency, the Director of the Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency, or any other officer or employee of the 
        United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency or the Arms 
        Control and Disarmament Agency shall be deemed to refer to the 
        Secretary of State; or
            (2) the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency or 
        the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency shall be deemed to refer 
        to the Department of State.

SEC. 1222. REPEALS.

    The following sections of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 
U.S.C. 2551 et seq.) are repealed: Sections 21 through 26 (22 U.S.C. 
2561-2566), section 35 (22 U.S.C. 2575), section 42 (22 U.S.C. 2582), 
section 43 (22 U.S.C. 2583), sections 45 through 50 (22 U.S.C. 2585-
2593), section 53 (22 U.S.C. 2593c), section 54 (22 U.S.C. 2593d), and 
section 63 (22 U.S.C. 2595b).

SEC. 1223. AMENDMENTS TO THE ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT ACT.

    The Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2551 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 2 (22 U.S.C. 2551)--
                    (A) in the first undesignated paragraph, by striking 
                ``creating a new agency of peace to deal with'' and 
                inserting ``addressing'';
                    (B) by striking the second undesignated paragraph; 
                and
                    (C) in the third undesignated paragraph--
                          (i) by striking ``This organization'' and 
                      inserting ``The Secretary of State'';
                          (ii) by striking ``It shall have'' and 
                      inserting ``The Secretary shall have'';
                          (iii) by striking ``and the Secretary of 
                      State'';
                          (iv) by inserting ``, nonproliferation,'' 
                      after ``arms control'' in paragraph (1);
                          (v) by striking paragraph (2);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-769]]

                          (vi) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through 
                      (5) as paragraphs (2) through (4), respectively; 
                      and
                          (vii) by striking ``, as appropriate,'' in 
                      paragraph (3) (as redesignated);
            (2) in section 3 (22 U.S.C. 2552), by striking subsection 
        (c);
            (3) in the heading for title II, by striking 
        ``ORGANIZATION'' and inserting ``SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES AND 
        VISITING SCHOLARS'';
            (4) in section 27 (22 U.S.C. 2567)--
                    (A) by striking the third sentence;
                    (B) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``, acting 
                through the Director''; and
                    (C) in the fifth sentence, by striking ``Agency'' 
                and inserting ``Department of State'';
            (5) in section 28 (22 U.S.C. 2568)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Secretary of State'';
                    (B) in the second sentence--
                          (i) by striking ``Agency'' each place it 
                      appears and inserting ``Department of State''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``Agency's'' and inserting 
                      ``Department of State's''; and
            (6) in section 31 (22 U.S.C. 2571)--
                    (A) by inserting ``this title in'' after ``powers 
                in'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Secretary of State'';
                    (C) by striking ``insure'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``ensure'';
                    (D) in the second sentence, by striking ``in 
                accordance with procedures established under section 35 
                of this Act'';
                    (E) in the fourth sentence by striking ``The 
                authority'' and all that follows through 
                ``disarmament:'' and inserting the following: ``The 
                authority of the Secretary under this Act with respect 
                to research, development, and other studies concerning 
                arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament shall be 
                limited to participation in the following:''; and
                    (F) in subsection (l), by inserting ``and'' at the 
                end;
            (7) in section 32 (22 U.S.C. 2572)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (B) by striking ``subsection'' and inserting 
                ``section'';
            (8) in section 33(a) (22 U.S.C. 2573(a))--
                    (A) by striking ``the Secretary of State,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                ``Secretary of State'';
            (9) in section 34 (22 U.S.C. 2574)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                      ``Director'' and inserting ``Secretary of State'';
                          (ii) in the first sentence, by striking ``and 
                      the Secretary of State'';
                          (iii) in the first sentence, by inserting ``, 
                      nonproliferation,'' after ``in the fields of arms 
                      control'';
                          (iv) in the first sentence, by striking ``and 
                      shall have primary responsibility, whenever 
                      directed by the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-770]]

                      President, for the preparation, conduct, and 
                      management of the United States participation in 
                      international negotiations and implementation fora 
                      in the field of nonproliferation'';
                          (v) in the second sentence, by striking 
                      ``section 27'' and inserting ``section 201''; and
                          (vi) in the second sentence, by striking 
                      ``the'' after ``serve as'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (b);
                    (C) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b); and
                    (D) in subsection (b) (as redesignated)--
                          (i) in the text above paragraph (1), by 
                      striking ``Director'' and inserting ``Secretary of 
                      State'';
                          (ii) by striking paragraph (1); and
                          (iii) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
                      as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively;
            (10) in section 36 (22 U.S.C. 2576)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, in accordance with the 
                procedures established pursuant to section 35 of this 
                Act,'';
            (11) in section 37 (22 U.S.C. 2577)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director'' and ``Agency'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``Secretary of State'' or 
                ``Department of State'', respectively; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (d);
            (12) in section 38 (22 U.S.C. 2578)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (c);
            (13) in section 41 (22 U.S.C. 2581)--
                    (A) by striking ``In the performance of his 
                functions, the Director'' and inserting ``In addition to 
                any authorities otherwise available, the Secretary of 
                State in the performance of functions under this Act'';
                    (B) by striking ``Agency'', ``Agency's'', 
                ``Director'', and ``Director's'' each place they appear 
                and inserting ``Department of State'', ``Department of 
                State's'', ``Secretary of State'', or ``Secretary of 
                State's'', as appropriate;
                    (C) in subsection (a), by striking the sentence that 
                begins ``It is the intent'';
                    (D) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``appoint officers and 
                      employees, including attorneys, for the Agency in 
                      accordance with the provisions of title 5, United 
                      States Code, governing appointment in the 
                      competitive service, and fix their compensation in 
                      accordance with chapter 51 and with subchapter III 
                      of chapter 53 of such title, relating to 
                      classification and General Schedule pay rates, 
                      except that the Director may, to the extent the 
                      Director determines necessary to the discharge of 
                      his responsibilities,'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                      ``exception'' and inserting ``subsection''; and
                          (iii) in paragraph (2)--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-771]]

                                    (I) by striking ``exception'' and 
                                inserting ``subsection''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``ceiling'' and 
                                inserting ``positions allocated to carry 
                                out the purpose of this Act'';
                    (E) by striking subsection (g);
                    (F) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), and (j) 
                as subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively;
                    (G) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
            ``(f) establish a scientific and policy advisory board to 
        advise with and make recommendations to the Secretary of State 
        on United States arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament 
        policy and activities. A majority of the board shall be composed 
        of individuals who have a demonstrated knowledge and technical 
        expertise with respect to arms control, nonproliferation, and 
        disarmament matters and who have distinguished themselves in any 
        of the fields of physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, or 
        engineering, including weapons engineering. The members of the 
        board may receive the compensation and reimbursement for 
        expenses specified for consultants by subsection (d) of this 
        section;''; and
                    (H) in subsection (h) (as redesignated), by striking 
                ``Deputy Director'' and inserting ``Under Secretary for 
                Arms Control and International Security'';
            (14) in section 44 (22 U.S.C. 2584)--
                    (A) by striking ``conflict-of-interest and'';
                    (B) by striking ``The members'' and all that follows 
                through ``(5 U.S.C. 2263), or any other'' and inserting 
                ``Members of advisory boards and consultants may serve 
                as such without regard to any''; and
                    (C) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> by inserting at the end 
                the following new sentence: ``This section shall apply 
                only to individuals carrying out activities related to 
                arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament.'';
            (15) in section 51 (22 U.S.C. 2593a)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) in paragraphs (1) and (3), by inserting 
                      ``, nonproliferation,'' after ``arms control'' 
                      each place it appears;
                          (ii) by striking ``Director, in consultation 
                      with the Secretary of State,'' and inserting 
                      ``Secretary of State with the concurrence of the 
                      Director of Central Intelligence and in 
                      consultation with'';
                          (iii) by striking ``the Chairman of the Joint 
                      Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Central 
                      Intelligence'' and inserting ``and the Chairman of 
                      the Joint Chiefs of Staff'';
                          (iv) by striking paragraphs (2) and (4); and
                          (v) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (5), (6), 
                      and (7) as paragraphs (2) through (5), 
                      respectively; and
                    (B) by adding at the end of subsection (b) the 
                following: ``The portions of this report described in 
                paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (a) shall summarize 
                in detail, at least in classified annexes, the 
                information, analysis, and conclusions relevant to 
                possible noncompliance by other nations that are 
                provided by United States intelligence agencies.'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-772]]

            (16) in section 52 (22 U.S.C. 2593b), by striking 
        ``Director'' and inserting ``Secretary of State'';
            (17) in section 61 (22 U.S.C. 2593a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``United States 
                Arms Control and Disarmament Agency'' and inserting 
                ``Department of State'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (6), respectively;
                    (D) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated), by striking 
                ``paragraph (4)'' and inserting ``paragraph (3)''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated), by striking 
                ``United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and 
                the'';
            (18) in section 62 (22 U.S.C. 2595a)--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                          (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                      ``Director'' and inserting ``Secretary of State''; 
                      and
                          (ii) by striking ``2(d), 22, and 34(c)'' and 
                      inserting ``102(3) and 304(b)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                ``Secretary of State'';
            (19) in section 64 (22 U.S.C. 2595b-1)--
                    (A) by striking the section title and inserting 
                ``SEC. 503. REVIEW OF CERTAIN REPROGRAMMING 
                NOTIFICATIONS.'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (a); and
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``(b) Review of Certain 
                      Reprogramming Notifications.--''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``Foreign Affairs'' and 
                      inserting ``International Relations'';
            (20) in section 65(1) (22 U.S.C. 2595c(1)) by inserting ``of 
        America'' after ``United States''; and
            (21) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2551 et seq.>> by redesignating sections 
        1, 2, 3, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 44, 51, 52, 
        61, 62, 64, and 65, as amended by this section, as sections 101, 
        102, 103, 201, 202, 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 401, 
        402, 403, 404, 501, 502, 503, and 504, respectively.

SEC. 1224. COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.

      Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 5313, by striking ``Director of the United 
        States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.'';
            (2) in section 5314, by striking ``Deputy Director of the 
        United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.'';
            (3) in section 5315--
                    (A) by striking ``Assistant Directors, United States 
                Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (4).''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Special Representatives of the 
                President for arms control, nonproliferation, and 
                disarmament matters, United States Arms Control and 
                Disarmament Agency'', and inserting ``Special 
                Representatives of the President for arms control, 
                nonproliferation, and disarmament matters, Department of 
                State''; and
            (4) in section 5316, by striking ``General Counsel of the 
        United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-773]]

SEC. 1225. ADDITIONAL CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Arms Export Control Act.--The Arms Export Control Act is 
amended--
            (1) in section 36(b)(1)(D) (22 U.S.C. 2776(b)(1)(D)), by 
        striking ``Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency 
        in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
        Defense'' and inserting ``Secretary of State in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central 
        Intelligence'';
            (2) in section 38(a)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(2))--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``be made in 
                coordination with the Director of the United States Arms 
                Control and Disarmament Agency, taking into account the 
                Director's assessment as to'' and inserting ``take into 
                account''; and
                    (B) by striking the second sentence;
            (3) in section 42(a) (22 U.S.C. 2791(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``the 
                assessment of the Director of the United States Arms 
                Control and Disarmament Agency as to'';
                    (B) by striking ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (2);
            (4) in section 71(a) (22 U.S.C. 2797(a)), by striking ``, 
        the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,'';
            (5) in section 71(b)(1) (22 U.S.C. 2797(b)(1)), by striking 
        ``and the Director of the United States Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency'';
            (6) in section 71(b)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2797(b)(2))--
                    (A) by striking ``, the Secretary of Commerce, and 
                the Director of the United States Arms Control and 
                Disarmament Agency'' and inserting ``and the Secretary 
                of Commerce''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or the Director'';
            (7) in section 71(c) (22 U.S.C. 2797(c)), by striking ``with 
        the Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament 
        Agency,''; and
            (8) in section 73(d) (22 U.S.C. 2797b(d)), by striking ``, 
        the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of the United States 
        Arms Control and Disarmament Agency'' and inserting ``and the 
        Secretary of Commerce''.

    (b) Foreign Assistance Act.--Section 511 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321d) is amended by striking ``be made in 
coordination with the Director of the United States Arms Control and 
Disarmament Agency and shall take into account his opinion as to'' and 
inserting ``take into account''.

    (c) United States Institute of Peace Act.--
            (1) Section 1706(b) of the United States Institute of Peace 
        Act (22 U.S.C. 4605(b)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (3);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as 
                paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated), by striking 
                ``Eleven'' and inserting ``Twelve''.
            (2) Section 1707(d)(2) of that Act (22 U.S.C. 4606(d)(2)) is 
        amended by striking ``, Director of the Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-774]]

    (d) Atomic Energy Act of 1954.--The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is 
amended--
            (1) in section 57b. (42 U.S.C. 2077(b))--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``the Arms 
                Control and Disarmament Agency,''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``the 
                Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,'';
            (2) in section 109b. (42 U.S.C. 2129(b)), <<NOTE: 42 USC 
        2139.>> by striking ``and the Director'';
            (3) in section 111b. (42 U.S.C. 2131(b)) <<NOTE: 42 USC 
        2141.>> by striking ``the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, 
        the Nuclear Regulatory Commission,'' and inserting ``the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission'';
            (4) in section 123 (42 U.S.C. 2153)--
                    (A) in subsection a., in the third sentence--
                          (i) by striking ``and in consultation with the 
                      Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament 
                      Agency (`the Director')'';
                          (ii) by inserting ``and'' after ``Energy,'';
                          (iii) by striking ``Commission, and the 
                      Director, who'' and inserting ``Commission. The 
                      Secretary of State''; and
                          (iv) after ``nuclear explosive purpose.'', by 
                      inserting the following new sentence: ``Each 
                      Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement 
                      prepared pursuant to this Act shall be accompanied 
                      by a classified annex, prepared in consultation 
                      with the Director of Central Intelligence, 
                      summarizing relevant classified information.'';
                    (B) in subsection d., in the first proviso--
                          (i) by striking ``Nuclear Proliferation 
                      Assessment Statement prepared by the Director of 
                      the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,'' and 
                      inserting ``Nuclear Proliferation Assessment 
                      Statement prepared by the Secretary of State, and 
                      any annexes thereto,''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``has been'' and inserting 
                      ``have been''; and
                    (C) in the first undesignated paragraph following 
                subsection d., by striking ``the Arms Control and 
                Disarmament Agency,'';
            (5) in section 126a.(1), <<NOTE: 42 USC 2155.>> by striking 
        ``the Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and 
        the Nuclear Regulatory Commission'' and inserting ``and the 
        Nuclear Regulatory Commission,'';
            (6) in section 131a. (42 U.S.C. 2160(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Director,'';
                          (ii) in the third sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Director declares that he intends'' and inserting 
                      ``the Secretary of State is required''; and
                          (iii) in the third sentence, by striking ``the 
                      Director's declaration'' and inserting ``the 
                      requirement to prepare a Nuclear Proliferation 
                      Assessment Statement'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) by striking ``Director's view'' and 
                      inserting ``view of the Secretary of State, 
                      Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Defense, or the 
                      Commission''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-775]]

                          (ii) by striking ``he may prepare'' and 
                      inserting ``the Secretary of State, in 
                      consultation with such Secretary or the 
                      Commission, shall prepare''; and
            (7) in section 131c. (42 U.S.C. 2160(c))--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``, the 
                Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,'';
                    (B) in the sixth and seventh sentences, by striking 
                ``Director'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (C) in the seventh sentence, by striking 
                ``Director's'' and inserting ``Secretary of State's''.

    (e) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978.--The Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Act of 1978 is amended--
            (1) in section 4 (22 U.S.C. 3203)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (8) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (7), respectively;
            (2) in section 102 (22 U.S.C. 3222), by striking ``, the 
        Secretary of State, and the Director of the Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency'' and inserting ``and the Secretary of 
        State'';
            (3) in section 304(d) (42 U.S.C. 2156a), by striking ``the 
        Secretary of Defense, and the Director,'' and inserting ``and 
        the Secretary of Defense,'';
            (4) in section 309 (42 U.S.C. 2139a)--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``the Department 
                of Commerce, and the Arms Control and Disarmament 
                Agency'' and inserting ``and the Department of 
                Commerce''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``the Arms 
                Control and Disarmament Agency,'';
            (5) in section 406 (42 U.S.C. 2160a), by inserting ``, or 
        any annexes thereto,'' after ``Statement''; and
            (6) in section 602 (22 U.S.C. 3282)--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``the Arms 
                Control and Disarmament Agency,''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``and the 
                Director''.

    (f) State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.--Section 23(a) 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 
2695(a)) is amended by striking ``the Agency for International 
Development, and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency'' and inserting 
``and the Agency for International Development''.
    (g) Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1972.--Section 502 of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1972 (2 U.S.C. 194a) is amended 
by striking ``the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,''.
    (h) Title 49.--Section 40118(d) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``, or the Director of the Arms Control and 
Disarmament Agency''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-776]]

              TITLE XIII--UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY

                      CHAPTER 1--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1301. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6531 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title, and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect 
on the earlier of--
            (1) October 1, 1999; or
            (2) the date of abolition of the United States Information 
        Agency pursuant to the reorganization plan described in section 
        1601.

             CHAPTER 2--ABOLITION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS

SEC. 1311. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6531.>> ABOLITION OF UNITED STATES INFORMATION 
            AGENCY.

    The United States Information Agency (other than the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors and the International Broadcasting Bureau) is 
abolished.

SEC. 1312. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6532.>> TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are transferred to the Secretary of State all 
functions of the Director of the United States Information Agency and 
all functions of the United States Information Agency and any office or 
component of such agency, under any statute, reorganization plan, 
Executive order, or other provision of law, as of the day before the 
effective date of this title.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) does not apply to the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors, the International Broadcasting Bureau, or any 
function performed by the Board or the Bureau.

SEC. 1313. UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.

    Section 1(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2651a(b)), as amended by this division, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Under secretary for public diplomacy.--There shall be 
        in the Department of State, among the Under Secretaries 
        authorized by paragraph (1), an Under Secretary for Public 
        Diplomacy, who shall have primary responsibility to assist the 
        Secretary and the Deputy Secretary in the formation and 
        implementation of United States public diplomacy policies and 
        activities, including international educational and cultural 
        exchange programs, information, and international 
        broadcasting.''.

SEC. 1314. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6533.>> ABOLITION OF OFFICE OF INSPECTOR 
            GENERAL OF UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY AND TRANSFER OF 
            FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Abolition of Office.--The Office of Inspector General of the 
United States Information Agency is abolished.
    (b) Amendments to Inspector General Act of 1978.--Section 11 of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Office of Personnel 
        Management, the United States Information Agency'' and inserting 
        ``or the Office of Personnel Management''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the United States 
        Information Agency,''.

    (c) Executive Schedule.--Section 5315 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-777]]

            ``Inspector General, United States Information Agency.''.

    (d) Amendments to Public Law 103-236.--Subsections (i) and (j) of 
section 308 of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 
(22 U.S.C. 6207 (i) and (j)) are amended--
            (1) by striking ``Inspector General of the United States 
        Information Agency'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign 
        Service''; and
            (2) by striking ``, the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency,''.

    (e) Transfer of Functions.--There are transferred to the Office of 
the Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service 
the functions that the Office of Inspector General of the United States 
Information Agency exercised before the effective date of this title 
(including all related functions of the Inspector General of the United 
States Information Agency).

                  CHAPTER 3--INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING

SEC. 1321. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6541.>> CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION 
            OF PURPOSE.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) it is the policy of the United States to promote the 
        right of freedom of opinion and expression, including the 
        freedom ``to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas 
        through any media and regardless of frontiers'', in accordance 
        with Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
            (2) open communication of information and ideas among the 
        peoples of the world contributes to international peace and 
        stability, and the promotion
of such communication is in the interests of the United States;
            (3) it is in the interest of the United States to support 
        broadcasting to other nations consistent with the requirements 
        of this chapter and the United States International Broadcasting 
        Act of 1994; and
            (4) international broadcasting is, and should remain, an 
        essential instrument of United States foreign policy.

SEC. 1322. CONTINUED EXISTENCE OF BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.

    Section 304(a) of the United States International Broadcasting Act 
of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6203(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Continued Existence Within Executive Branch.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Broadcasting Board of Governors shall 
        continue to exist within the Executive branch of Government as 
        an entity described in section 104 of title 5, United States 
        Code.
            ``(2) Retention of existing board members.--The members of 
        the Broadcasting Board of Governors appointed by the President 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(A) before the effective date of 
        title XIII of the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 
        1998 and holding office as of that date may serve the remainder 
        of their terms of office without reappointment.
            ``(3) Inspector general authorities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Inspector General of the 
                Department of State and the Foreign Service shall 
                exercise the same authorities with respect to the 
                Broadcasting

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-778]]

                Board of Governors and the International Broadcasting 
                Bureau as the Inspector General exercises under the 
                Inspector General Act of 1978 and section 209 of the 
                Foreign Service Act of 1980 with respect to the 
                Department of State.
                    ``(B) Respect for journalistic integrity of 
                broadcasters.--The Inspector General shall respect the 
                journalistic integrity of all the broadcasters covered 
                by this title and may not evaluate the philosophical or 
                political perspectives reflected in the content of 
                broadcasts.''.

SEC. 1323. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL 
            BROADCASTING ACT OF 1994.

    (a) References in Section.--Whenever in this section an amendment or 
repeal is expressed as an amendment or repeal of a provision, the 
reference shall be deemed to be made to the United States International 
Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.).
    (b) Substitution of Secretary of State.--Sections 304(b)(1)(B), 
304(b) (2) and (3), 304(c), and 304(e) (22 U.S.C. 6203(b)(1)(B), 6203(b) 
(2) and (3), 6203(c), and 6203(e)) are amended by striking ``Director of 
the United States Information Agency'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``Secretary of State''.
    (c) Substitution of Acting Secretary of State.--Section 304(c) (22 
U.S.C. 6203(c)) is amended by striking ``acting Director of the agency'' 
and inserting ``Acting Secretary of State''.
    (d) Standards and Principles of International Broadcasting.--Section 
303(b) (22 U.S.C. 6202(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, including editorials, 
        broadcast by the Voice of America, which present the views of 
        the United States Government'' after ``policies'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (9) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (10), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the capability to provide a surge capacity to support 
        United States foreign policy objectives during crises abroad;'';

    (e) Authorities of the Board.--Section 305(a) (22 U.S.C. 6204(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``direct and''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and the Television Broadcasting to 
                Cuba Act'' and inserting ``, the Television Broadcasting 
                to Cuba Act, and Worldnet Television, except as provided 
                in section 306(b)'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of State,'' after ``annually,'';
            (3) in paragraph (9)--
                    (A) by striking ``, through the Director of the 
                United States Information Agency,''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
                ``Each annual report shall place special emphasis on the 
                assessment described in paragraph (2).'';
            (4) in paragraph (12)--
                    (A) by striking ``1994 and 1995'' and inserting 
                ``1998 and 1999''; and
                    (B) by striking ``to the Board for International 
                Broadcasting for such purposes for fiscal year 1993'' 
                and inserting

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-779]]

                ``to the Board and the International Broadcasting Bureau 
                for such purposes for fiscal year 1997''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(15)(A) To procure temporary and intermittent personal 
        services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109 of 
        title 5, United States Code, at rates not to exceed the daily 
        equivalent of the rate provided for positions classified above 
        grade GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 5108 of title 
        5, United States Code.
            ``(B) To allow those providing such services, while away 
        from their homes or their regular places of business, travel 
        expenses (including per diem in lieu of subsistence) as 
        authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for 
        persons in the Government service employed intermittently, while 
        so employed.
            ``(16) To procure, pursuant to section 1535 of title 31, 
        United States Code (commonly known as the `Economy Act'), such 
        goods and services from other departments or agencies for the 
        Board and the International Broadcasting Bureau as the Board 
        determines are appropriate.
            ``(17) To utilize the provisions of titles III, IV, V, VII, 
        VIII, IX, and X of the United States Information and Educational 
        Exchange Act of 1948, and section 6 of Reorganization Plan 
        Number 2 of 1977, as in effect on the day before the effective 
        date of title XIII of the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation 
        Act of 1998, to the extent the Board considers necessary in 
        carrying out the provisions and purposes of this title.
            ``(18) To utilize the authorities of any other statute, 
        reorganization plan, Executive order, regulation, agreement, 
        determination, or other official document or proceeding that had 
        been available to the Director of the United States Information 
        Agency, the Bureau, or the Board before the effective date of 
        title XIII of the Foreign Affairs Consolidation Act of 1998 for 
        carrying out the broadcasting activities covered by this 
        title.''.

    (f) Delegation of Authority.--Section 305 (22 U.S.C. 6204) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as 
        subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(b) Delegation of Authority.--The Board may delegate to the 
Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau, or any other officer 
or employee of the United States, to the extent the Board determines to 
be appropriate, the authorities provided in this section, except those 
authorities provided in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (9), or 
(11) of subsection (a).''.
    (g) Broadcasting Budgets.--Section 305(c)(1) (as redesignated) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1)'' before ``The Director''; and
            (2) by striking ``the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency for the consideration of the Director as a 
        part of the Agency's budget submission to''.

    (h) Repeal.--Section 305(c)(2) (as redesignated) is repealed.

    (i) Implementation.--Section 305(d) (as redesignated) is amended to 
read as follows:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-780]]

    ``(d) Professional Independence of Broadcasters.--The Secretary of 
State and the Board, in carrying out their functions, shall respect the 
professional independence and integrity of the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, its broadcasting services, and the grantees of the 
Board.''.
    (j) Foreign Policy Guidance.--Section 306 (22 U.S.C. 6205) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``FOREIGN POLICY 
        GUIDANCE'' and inserting ``ROLE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE'';
            (2) by inserting ``(a) Foreign Policy Guidance.--'' 
        immediately before ``To'';
            (3) by striking ``State, acting through the Director of the 
        United States Information Agency,'' and inserting ``State'';
            (4) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, as the Secretary may deem appropriate''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Certain Worldnet Programming.--The Secretary of State is 
authorized to use Worldnet broadcasts for the purposes of continuing 
interactive dialogues with foreign media and other similar overseas 
public diplomacy programs sponsored by the Department of State. The 
Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall provide access to 
Worldnet for this purpose on a nonreimbursable basis.''.
    (k) International Broadcasting Bureau.--Section 307 (22 U.S.C. 6206) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``within the United 
        States Information Agency'' and inserting ``under the Board'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Chairman of the 
        Board, in consultation with the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency and with the concurrence of a majority of the 
        Board'' and inserting ``President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (b)(1) as subsection (b);
            (4) by striking subsection (b)(2); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) Responsibilities of the Director.--The Director shall organize 
and chair a coordinating committee to examine and make recommendations 
to the Board on long-term strategies for the future of international 
broadcasting, including the use of new technologies, further 
consolidation of broadcast services, and consolidation of currently 
existing public affairs and legislative relations functions in the 
various international broadcasting entities. The coordinating committee 
shall include representatives of Radio Free Asia, RFE/RL, Incorporated, 
the Broadcasting Board of Governors, and, as appropriate, the Office of 
Cuba Broadcasting, the Voice of America, and Worldnet.''.
    (l) Repeals.--The following provisions of law are repealed:
            (1) Subsections (k) and (l) of section 308 (22 U.S.C. 6207 
        (k), (l)).
            (2) Section 310 (22 U.S.C. 6209).

SEC. 1324. AMENDMENTS TO THE RADIO BROADCASTING TO CUBA ACT.

    The Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 1465 et seq.) is 
amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-781]]

            (1) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1465a, 1465d, 1465f.>> by striking 
        ``United States Information Agency'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Broadcasting Board of Governors'';
            (2) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1465a, 1465d, 1465e, 1465f. 22 USC 1465a, 
        1465b.>> by striking ``Agency'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Board'';
            (3) by striking ``the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency'' each place it appears and inserting ``the 
        Broadcasting Board of Governors'';
            (4) in section 4 (22 U.S.C. 1465b), by striking ``the Voice 
        of America'' and inserting ``the International Broadcasting 
        Bureau'';
            (5) in section 5 (22 U.S.C. 1465c)--
                    (A) by striking ``Board'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``Advisory Board''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking the first 
                sentence and inserting ``There is established within the 
                Office of the President the Advisory Board for Cuba 
                Broadcasting (in this division referred to as the 
                `Advisory Board').''; and
            (6) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1465b.>> by striking any other reference 
        to ``Director'' not amended by paragraph (3) each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Board''.

SEC. 1325. AMENDMENTS TO THE TELEVISION BROADCASTING TO CUBA ACT.

    The Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.) 
is amended--
            (1) in section 243(a) (22 U.S.C. 1465bb(a)) and section 246 
        (22 U.S.C. 1465dd), by striking ``United States Information 
        Agency'' each place it appears and inserting ``Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors'';
            (2) in section 243(c) (22 U.S.C. 1465bb(c))--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``USIA''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking `` `USIA Television'' and inserting 
                ``the `Television'';
            (3) in section 244(c) (22 U.S.C. 1465cc(c)) and section 246 
        (22 U.S.C. 1465dd), by striking ``Agency'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Board'';
            (4) in section 244 (22 U.S.C. 1465cc)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``OF THE 
                UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by striking ``The 
                      Director of the United States Information Agency 
                      shall establish'' and inserting ``There is''; and
                          (ii) in the second sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``Director of the 
                                United States Information Agency'' and 
                                inserting ``Broadcasting Board of 
                                Governors''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``the Director of 
                                the Voice of America'' and inserting 
                                ``the International Broadcasting 
                                Bureau'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``Agency facilities'' and 
                      inserting ``Board facilities''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``Information Agency'' and 
                      inserting ``International''; and
                    (D) in the heading of subsection (c), by striking 
                ``USIA''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-782]]

            (5) in section 245(d) (22 U.S.C. 1465c note), by striking 
        ``Board'' and inserting ``Advisory Board''.

SEC. 1326. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6542.>> TRANSFER OF BROADCASTING RELATED 
            FUNDS, PROPERTY, AND PERSONNEL.
      (a) Transfer and Allocation of Property and Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--The assets, liabilities (including 
        contingent liabilities arising from suits continued with a 
        substitution or addition of parties under section 1327(d)), 
        contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of 
        appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds 
        employed, held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made 
        available in connection with the functions and offices of USIA 
        transferred to the Broadcasting Board of Governors by this 
        chapter shall be transferred to the Broadcasting Board of 
        Governors for appropriate allocation.
            (2) Additional transfers.--In addition to the transfers made 
        under paragraph (1), there shall be transferred to the Chairman 
        of the Broadcasting Board of Governors the assets, contracts, 
        property, records, and unexpended balance of appropriations, 
        authorizations, allocations, and other funds, as determined by 
        the Secretary, in concurrence with the Broadcasting Board of 
        Governors, to support the functions transferred by this chapter.
      (b) Transfer of Personnel.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law--
            (1) except as provided in subsection (c), all personnel and 
        positions of USIA employed or maintained to carry out the 
        functions transferred by this chapter to the Broadcasting Board 
        of Governors shall be transferred to the Broadcasting Board of 
        Governors at the same grade or class and the same rate of basic 
        pay or basic salary rate and with the same tenure held 
        immediately preceding transfer; and
            (2) the personnel and positions of USIA, as determined by 
        the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors and the Director of USIA, to support the 
        functions transferred by this chapter shall be transferred to 
        the Broadcasting Board of Governors, including the International 
        Broadcasting Bureau, at the same grade or class and the same 
        rate of basic pay or basic salary rate and with the same tenure 
        held immediately preceding transfer.
      (c) Transfer and Allocation of Property, Appropriations, and 
Personnel Associated With Worldnet.--USIA personnel responsible for 
carrying out interactive dialogs with foreign media and other similar 
overseas public diplomacy programs using the Worldnet television 
broadcasting system, and funds associated with such personnel, shall be 
transferred to the Department of State in accordance with the provisions 
of title XVI of this subdivision.
      (d) Incidental Transfers.--The Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, when requested by the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, is authorized to make such incidental dispositions of 
personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, records, 
and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, 
and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made 
available in connection with functions and offices

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-783]]

transferred from USIA, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions 
of this section.

SEC. 1327. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6543.>> SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Continuing Legal Force and Effect.--All orders, determinations, 
rules, regulations, permits, agreements, grants, contracts, 
certificates, licenses, registrations, privileges, and other 
administrative actions--
            (1) that have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to 
        become effective by the President, any Federal agency or 
        official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in 
        the performance of functions exercised by the Broadcasting Board 
        of Governors of the United States Information Agency on the day 
        before the effective date of this title, and
            (2) that are in effect at the time this title takes effect, 
        or were final before the effective date of this title and are to 
        become effective on or after the effective date of this title,

shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, 
terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by 
the President, the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or other authorized 
official, a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
    (b) Pending Proceedings.--
            (1) In general.--The provisions of this chapter, or 
        amendments made by this chapter, shall not affect any 
        proceedings, including notices of proposed rulemaking, or any 
        application for any license, permit, certificate, or financial 
        assistance pending before the Broadcasting Board of Governors of 
        the United States Information Agency at the time this title 
        takes effect, with respect to functions exercised by the Board 
        as of the effective date of this title but such proceedings and 
        applications shall be continued.
            (2) Orders, appeals, and payments.--Orders shall be issued 
        in such proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and 
        payments shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this 
        chapter had not been enacted, and orders issued in any such 
        proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, 
        superseded, or revoked by a duly authorized official, by a court 
        of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
            (3) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
        shall be deemed to prohibit the discontinuance or modification 
        of any such proceeding under the same terms and conditions and 
        to the same extent that such proceeding could have been 
        discontinued or modified if this chapter had not been enacted.

    (c) Nonabatement of Proceedings.--No suit, action, or other 
proceeding commenced by or against any officer in the official capacity 
of such individual as an officer of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, 
or any commission or component thereof, shall abate by reason of the 
enactment of this chapter. No cause of action by or against the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, or any commission or component thereof, 
or by or against any officer thereof in the official capacity of such 
officer, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this chapter.
    (d) Continuation of Proceedings With Substitution of Parties.--
            (1) Substitution of parties.--If, before the effective date 
        of this title, USIA or the Broadcasting Board of Governors,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-784]]

        or any officer thereof in the official capacity of such officer, 
        is a party to a suit which is related to the functions 
        transferred by this chapter, then effective on such date such 
        suit shall be continued with the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
        or other appropriate official of the Board substituted or added 
        as a party.
            (2) Liability of the board.--The Board shall participate in 
        suits continued under paragraph (1) where the Broadcasting Board 
        of Governors or other appropriate official of the Board is added 
        as a party and shall be liable for any judgments or remedies in 
        those suits or proceedings arising from the exercise of the 
        functions transferred by this chapter to the same extent that 
        USIA would have been liable if such judgment or remedy had been 
        rendered on the day before the abolition of USIA.

    (e) Administrative Actions Relating to Promulgation of 
Regulations.--Any administrative action relating to the preparation or 
promulgation of a regulation by the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
relating to a function exercised by the Board before the effective date 
of this title may be continued by the Board with the same effect as if 
this chapter had not been enacted.
    (f) References.--Reference in any other Federal law, Executive 
order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of 
or relating to the Broadcasting Board of Governors of the United States 
Information Agency with regard to functions exercised before the 
effective date of this title, shall be deemed to refer to the Board.

SEC. 1328. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6544.>> REPORT ON THE PRIVATIZATION OF RFE/RL, 
            INCORPORATED.
      Not later than March 1 of each year, the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report on the progress of the Board and of RFE/RL, Incorporated, on any 
steps taken to further the policy declared in section 312(a) of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995. The 
report under this subsection shall include the following:
            (1) Efforts by RFE/RL, Incorporated, to terminate individual 
        language services.
            (2) A detailed description of steps taken with regard to 
        section 312(a) of that Act.
            (3) An analysis of prospects for privatization over the 
        coming year.
            (4) An assessment of the extent to which United States 
        Government funding may be appropriate in the year 2000 and 
        subsequent years for surrogate broadcasting to the countries to 
        which RFE/RL, Incorporated, broadcast during the year. This 
        assessment shall include an analysis of the environment for 
        independent media in those countries, noting the extent of 
        government control of the media, the ability of independent 
        journalists and news organizations to operate, relevant domestic 
        legislation, level of government harassment and efforts to 
        censor, and other indications of whether the people of such 
        countries enjoy freedom of expression.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-785]]

                    CHAPTER 4--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 1331. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6551.>> REFERENCES.
      (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, 
any reference in any statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, 
regulation, agreement, determination, or other official document or 
proceeding to--
            (1) the Director of the United States Information Agency or 
        the Director of the International Communication Agency shall be 
        deemed to refer to the Secretary of State; and
            (2) the United States Information Agency, USIA, or the 
        International Communication Agency shall be deemed to refer to 
        the Department of State.
      (b) Continuing References to USIA or Director.--Subsection (a) 
shall not apply to section 146 (a), (b), or (c) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 4069a(f), 
4069b(g), or 4069c(f)).

SEC. 1332. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.

      Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 5313, by striking ``Director of the United 
        States Information Agency.'';
            (2) in section 5315--
                    (A) by striking ``Deputy Director of the United 
                States Information Agency.''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Director of the International 
                Broadcasting Bureau, the United States Information 
                Agency.'' and inserting ``Director of the International 
                Broadcasting Bureau.''; and
            (3) in section 5316--
                    (A) by striking ``Deputy Director, Policy and Plans, 
                United States Information Agency.''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Associate Director (Policy and 
                Plans), United States Information Agency.''.

SEC. 1333. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6552.>> APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LAWS.
      (a) Application to Functions of Department of State.--Section 501 
of Public Law 80-402 (22 U.S.C. 1461), section 202 of Public Law 95-426 
(22 U.S.C. 1461-1), and section 208 of Public Law 99-93 (22 U.S.C. 1461-
1a) shall not apply to public affairs and other information 
dissemination functions of the Secretary
of State as carried out prior to any transfer of functions pursuant to 
this subdivision.
      (b) Application to Functions Transferred to Department of State.--
Section 501 of Public Law 80-402 (22 U.S.C. 1461), section 202 of Public 
Law 95-426 (22 U.S.C. 1461-1), and section 208 of Public Law 99-93 (22 
U.S.C. 1461-1a) shall apply only to public diplomacy programs of the 
Director of the United States Information Agency as carried out prior to 
any transfer of functions pursuant to this subdivision to the same 
extent that such programs were covered by these provisions prior to such 
transfer.
      (c) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Except as provided in section 501 
of Public Law 80-402 and section 208 of Public Law 99-93, funds 
specifically authorized to be appropriated for such public diplomacy 
programs shall not be used to influence public opinion in the United 
States, and no program material prepared

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-786]]

using such funds shall be distributed or disseminated in the United 
States.
      (d) Reporting Requirements.--The report submitted pursuant to 
section 1601(f) of this subdivision shall include a detailed statement 
of the manner in which the special mission of public diplomacy carried 
out by USIA prior to the transfer of functions under this subdivision 
shall be preserved within the Department of State, including the planned 
duties and responsibilities of any new bureaus that will perform such 
public diplomacy functions. Such report shall also include the best 
available estimates of--
            (1) the amounts expended by the Department of State for 
        public affairs programs during fiscal year 1998, and on the 
        personnel and support costs for such programs;
            (2) the amounts expended by USIA for its public diplomacy 
        programs during fiscal year 1998, and on the personnel and 
        support costs for such programs; and
            (3) the amounts, including funds to be transferred from USIA 
        and funds appropriated to the Department, that will be allocated 
        for the programs described in paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        respectively, during the fiscal year in which the transfer of 
        functions from USIA to the Department occurs.
      (e) Congressional Presentation Document.--The Department of 
State's Congressional Presentation Document for fiscal year 2000 and 
each fiscal year thereafter shall include--
            (1) the aggregated amounts that the Department will spend on 
        such public diplomacy programs and on costs of personnel for 
        such programs, and a detailed description of the goals and 
        purposes for which such funds shall be expended; and
            (2) the amount of funds allocated to and the positions 
        authorized for such public diplomacy programs, including bureaus 
        to be created upon the transfer of functions from USIA to the 
        Department.

SEC. 1334. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6553.>> ABOLITION OF UNITED STATES ADVISORY 
            COMMISSION ON PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.
      (a) Abolition.--The United States Advisory Commission on Public 
Diplomacy is abolished.
      (b) Repeals.--Section 604 of the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1469) and section 8 of 
Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1977 are repealed.

SEC. 1335. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

      (a) The United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 
1948 (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 505 (22 U.S.C. 1464a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the United States 
                Information Agency'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``Broadcasting Board of Governors'';
                    (B) by striking ``United States Information Agency'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``Broadcasting Board 
                of Governors'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``Agency's'' and all that 
                      follows through `` `USIA-TV')'' and inserting 
                      ``television broadcasts of the United States 
                      International Television Service''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-787]]

                          (ii) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), by 
                      striking ``USIA-TV'' each place it appears and 
                      inserting ``The United States International 
                      Television Service''; and
                    (D) in subsections (d) and (e), by striking ``USIA-
                TV'' each place it appears and inserting ``the United 
                States International Television Service'';
            (2) in section 506(c) (22 U.S.C. 1464b(c))--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the United States 
                Information Agency'' and inserting ``Broadcasting Board 
                of Governors'';
                    (B) by striking ``Agency'' and inserting ``Board''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                ``Board'';
            (3) in section 705 (22 U.S.C 1477c)--
                    (A) by striking subsections (a) and (c); and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``(b) In addition, the United 
                      States Information Agency'' and inserting ``The 
                      Department of State''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``program grants'' and 
                      inserting ``grants for overseas public diplomacy 
                      programs'';
            (4) in section 801(7) (22 U.S.C. 1471(7))--
                    (A) by striking ``Agency'' and inserting ``overseas 
                public diplomacy''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``other'' after ``together with''; 
                and
            (5) in section 812 (22 U.S.C. 1475g)--
                    (A) by striking ``United States Information Agency 
                post'' each place it appears and inserting ``overseas 
                public diplomacy post'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``United States 
                Information Agency'' the first place it appears and 
                inserting ``Department of State'';
                    (C) in subsection (b), by striking ``Director of the 
                United States Information Agency'' and inserting 
                ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (D) in the section heading, by striking ``USIA'' and 
                inserting ``OVERSEAS PUBLIC DIPLOMACY''.
      (b) Section 212 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 1475h) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``United States Information Agency'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Department of State'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting ``for carrying out its 
        overseas public diplomacy functions'' after ``grants'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``a grant'' the first time it 
                appears and inserting ``an overseas public diplomacy 
                grant''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``such'' before 
                ``a grant'' the first place it appears;
            (4) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``overseas public 
        diplomacy'' before ``grants'';
            (5) in subsection (c)(3), by inserting ``such'' before 
        ``grant''; and
            (6) by striking subsection (d).
      (c) Section 602 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(22 U.S.C. 2452a) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``United States Information Agency'' and inserting ``Department 
        of State''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-788]]

            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``appropriations account of the 
                United States Information Agency'' and inserting 
                ``appropriate appropriations account of the Department 
                of State''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and the United States Information 
                Agency''.

    (d) Section 305 of Public Law 97-446 (19 U.S.C. 2604) is amended in 
the first sentence, by striking ``, after consultation with the Director 
of the United States Information Agency,''.
    (e) Section 601 of Public Law 103-227 (20 U.S.C. 5951(a)) is amended 
by striking ``of the Director of the United States Information Agency 
and with'' and inserting ``and''.
    (f) Section 1003(b) of the Fascell Fellowship Act (22 U.S.C. 
4902(b)) is amended--
            (1) in the text above paragraph (1), by striking ``9 
        members'' and inserting ``7 members'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``Six'' and inserting 
        ``Five'';
            (3) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).

    (g) Section 803 of the Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
1992 (50 U.S.C. 1903) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (6); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as 
                paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsection (b)(7)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (b)(6)''.

    (h) Section 7 of the Federal Triangle Development Act (40 U.S.C. 
1106) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in the text above subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``15 members'' and inserting ``14 members'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (F); and
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) through (J) 
                as subparagraphs (F) through (I), respectively;
            (2) in paragraphs (3) and (5) of subsection (c), by striking 
        ``paragraph (1)(J)'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``paragraph (1)(I)''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)(3) and subsection (e), by striking 
        ``the Administrator and the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency'' each place it appears and inserting ``and 
        the Administrator''.

    (i) Section 3 of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (Public Law 
90-637; 20 U.S.C. 80f) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``19 members'' and inserting ``17 members'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (7);
                    (C) by striking ``10'' in paragraph (10) and 
                inserting ``9''; and
                    (D) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through (10) as 
                paragraphs (7) through (9), respectively; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``(9)'' and inserting 
        ``(8)''.

    (j) Section 624 of Public Law 89-329 (20 U.S.C. 1131c) is amended by 
striking ``the United States Information Agency,''.
    (k) The Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) is 
amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-789]]

            (1) in section 202(a)(1) (22 U.S.C. 3922(a)(1)), by striking 
        ``Director of the United States Information Agency'' and 
        inserting ``Broadcasting Board of Governors'';
            (2) in section 210 (22 U.S.C. 3930), by striking ``United 
        States Information Agency'' and inserting ``Broadcasting Board 
        of Governors'';
            (3) in section 1003(a) (22 U.S.C. 4103(a)), by striking 
        ``United States Information Agency'' and inserting 
        ``Broadcasting Board of Governors''; and
            (4) in section 1101(c) (22 U.S.C. 4131(c)), by striking 
        ``the United States Information Agency,'' and inserting 
        ``Broadcasting Board of Governors,''.

    (l) The State Department Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by this 
division, is further amended--
            (1) in section 23(a) (22 U.S.C. 2695(a)), by striking 
        ``United States Information Agency'' and inserting 
        ``Broadcasting Board of Governors'';
            (2) in section 25(f) (22 U.S.C. 2697(f))--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the United States 
                Information Agency'' and inserting ``Broadcasting Board 
                of Governors''; and
                    (B) by striking ``with respect to their respective 
                agencies'' and inserting ``with respect to the Board and 
                the Agency'';
            (3) in section 26(b) (22 U.S.C. 2698(b)), as amended by this 
        division--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the United States 
                Information Agency, the chairman of the Board for 
                International Broadcasting,'' and inserting 
                ``Broadcasting Board of Governors,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``with respect to their respective 
                agencies'' and inserting ``with respect to the Board and 
                the Agency''; and
            (4) in section 32 (22 U.S.C. 2704), as amended by this 
        division, by striking ``the Director of the United States 
        Information Agency'' and inserting ``the Broadcasting Board of 
        Governors''.
      (m) Section 507(b)(3) of Public Law 103-317 (22 U.S.C. 
2669a(b)(3)) is amended by striking ``, the United States Information 
Agency,''.
      (n) Section 502 of Public Law 92-352 (2 U.S.C. 194a) is amended by 
striking ``the United States Information Agency,''.
      (o) Section 6 of Public Law 104-288 (22 U.S.C. 2141d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Director of the United 
        States Information Agency,''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the Director of the 
        United States Information Agency'' and inserting ``the Under 
        Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy''.
      (p) Section 40118(d) of title 49, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``, the Director of the United States Information Agency,''.
      (q) Section 155 of Public Law 102-138 <<NOTE: 22 USC 4001 
note.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking the comma before ``Department of Commerce'' 
        and inserting ``and''; and
            (2) by striking ``, and the United States Information 
        Agency''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-790]]

      (r) Section 107 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity 
(LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6037) is amended by striking 
``Director of the United States Information Agency'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``Director of the International Broadcasting 
Bureau''.

SEC. 1336. REPEALS.

      The following provisions are repealed:
            (1) Sections 701 (22 U.S.C. 1476), 704 (22 U.S.C. 1477b), 
        807 (22 U.S.C 1475b), 808 (22 U.S.C 1475c), 811 (22 U.S.C 
        1475f), and 1009 (22 U.S.C. 1440) of the United States 
        Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948.
            (2) Section 106(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
        Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2456(c)).
            (3) Section 565(e) of the Anti-Economic Discrimination Act 
        of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 2679c(e)).
            (4) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1475g note. 22 USC 4001 note. 5 USC app.; 
        22 USC 1461 note. 22 USC 1464a note.>> Section 206(b) of Public 
        Law 102-138.
            (5) Section 2241 of Public Law 104-66.
            (6) Sections 1 through 6 of Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
        of 1977 (91 Stat. 636).
            (7) Section 207 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
        Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204; 22 U.S.C. 1463 
        note).

  TITLE XIV--UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY

                      CHAPTER 1--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1401. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6561 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title, and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect 
on the earlier of--
            (1) April 1, 1999; or
            (2) the date of abolition of the United States International 
        Development Cooperation Agency pursuant to the reorganization 
        plan described in section 1601.

             CHAPTER 2--ABOLITION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS

SEC. 1411. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6561.>> ABOLITION OF UNITED STATES 
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY.

    (a) In General.--Except for the components specified in subsection 
(b), the United States International Development Cooperation Agency 
(including the Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation) 
is abolished.
    (b) AID and OPIC Exempted.--Subsection (a) does not apply to the 
Agency for International Development or the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation.

SEC. 1412. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6562.>> TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS AND AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Allocation of Funds.--
            (1) Allocation to the secretary of state.--Funds made 
        available under the categories of assistance deemed allocated to 
        the Director of the International Development Cooperation Agency 
        under section 1-801 of Executive Order No. 12163 (22 U.S.C. 2381 
        note) as of October 1, 1997, shall be allocated

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-791]]

        to the Secretary of State on and after the effective date of 
        this title without further action by the President.
            (2) Procedures for reallocations or transfers.--The 
        Secretary of State may allocate or transfer as appropriate any 
        funds received under paragraph (1) in the same manner as 
        previously provided for the Director of the International 
        Development Cooperation Agency under section 1-802 of that 
        Executive Order, as in effect on October 1, 1997.

    (b) With Respect to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.--
There are transferred to the Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development all functions of the Director of the United 
States International Development Cooperation Agency as of the day before 
the effective date of this title with respect to the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation.
    (c) Other Activities.--The authorities and functions transferred to 
the United States International Development Cooperation Agency or the 
Director of that Agency by section 6 of Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1979 shall, to the extent such authorities and functions have not 
been repealed, be transferred to those agencies or heads of agencies, as 
the case may be, in which those authorities and functions were vested by 
statute as of the day before the effective date of such reorganization 
plan.

SEC. 1413. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6563.>> STATUS OF AID.

    (a) In General.--Unless abolished pursuant to the reorganization 
plan submitted under section 1601, and except as provided in section 
1412, there is within the Executive branch of Government the United 
States Agency for International Development as an entity described in 
section 104 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Retention of Officers.--Nothing in this section shall require 
the reappointment of any officer of the United States serving in the 
Agency for International Development of the United States International 
Development Cooperation Agency as of the day before the effective date 
of this title.

                    CHAPTER 3--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 1421. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6571.>> REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, any reference in 
any statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, regulation, 
agreement, determination, or other official document or proceeding to 
the United States International Development Cooperation Agency (IDCA) or 
to the Director or any other officer or employee of IDCA--
            (1) insofar as such reference relates to any function or 
        authority transferred under section 1412(a), shall be deemed to 
        refer to the Secretary of State;
            (2) insofar as such reference relates to any function or 
        authority transferred under section 1412(b), shall be deemed to 
        refer to the Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development;
            (3) insofar as such reference relates to any function or 
        authority transferred under section 1412(c), shall be deemed to 
        refer to the head of the agency to which such function or 
        authority is transferred under such section; and
            (4) insofar as such reference relates to any function or 
        authority not transferred by this title, shall be deemed to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-792]]

        refer to the President or such agency or agencies as may be 
        specified by Executive order.

SEC. 1422. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

     <<NOTE: 5 USC app.; 22 USC 2381 note.>> (a) Termination of 
Reorganization Plans and Delegations.--The following shall cease to be 
effective:
            (1) Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1979 (5 U.S.C. App.).
            (2) Section 1-101 through 1-103, sections 1-401 through 1-
        403, section 1-801(a), and such other provisions that relate to 
        the United States International Development Cooperation Agency 
        or the Director of IDCA, of Executive Order No. 12163 (22 U.S.C. 
        2381 note; relating to administration of foreign assistance and 
        related functions).
            (3) The International Development Cooperation Agency 
        Delegation of Authority Numbered 1 (44 Fed. Reg. 57521), except 
        for section 1-6 of such Delegation of Authority.
            (4) <<NOTE: 22 USC 5812 note.>> Section 3 of Executive Order 
        No. 12884 (58 Fed. Reg. 64099; relating to the delegation of 
        functions under the Freedom for Russia and Emerging Eurasian 
        Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 1992, the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1993, and section 301 
        of title 3, United States Code).

    (b) Other Statutory Amendments and Repeal.--
            (1) Title 5.--Section 7103(a)(2)(B)(iv) of title 5, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``United States 
        International Development Cooperation Agency'' and inserting 
        ``Agency for International Development''.
            (2) Inspector general act of 1978.--Section 8A of the 
        Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) by striking ``Development'' through ``(1) 
                      shall'' and inserting ``Development shall'';
                          (ii) by striking ``; and'' at the end of 
                      subsection (a)(1) and inserting a period; and
                          (iii) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (B) by striking subsections (c) and (f); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (g), and 
                (h) as subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively.
            (3) State department basic authorities act of 1956.--The 
        State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is amended--
                    (A) in section 25(f) (22 U.S.C. 2697(f)), as amended 
                by this division, by striking ``Director of the United 
                States International Development Cooperation Agency'' 
                and inserting ``Administrator of the Agency for 
                International Development'';
                    (B) in section 26(b) (22 U.S.C. 2698(b)), as amended 
                by this divisionAct, by striking ``Director of the 
                United States International Development Cooperation 
                Agency'' and inserting ``Administrator of the Agency for 
                International Development''; and
                    (C) in section 32 (22 U.S.C. 2704), by striking 
                ``Director of the United States International 
                Development Cooperation Agency'' and inserting 
                ``Administrator of the Agency for International 
                Development''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-793]]

            (4) Foreign service act of 1980.--The Foreign Service Act of 
        1980 is amended--
                    (A) in section 202(a)(1) (22 U.S.C. 3922(a)(1)), by 
                striking ``Director of the United States International 
                Development Cooperation Agency'' and inserting 
                ``Administrator of the Agency for International 
                Development'';
                    (B) in section 210 (22 U.S.C. 3930), by striking 
                ``United States International Development Cooperation 
                Agency'' and inserting ``Agency for International 
                Development'';
                    (C) in section 1003(a) (22 U.S.C. 4103(a)), by 
                striking ``United States International Development 
                Cooperation Agency'' and inserting ``Agency for 
                International Development''; and
                    (D) in section 1101(c) (22 U.S.C. 4131(c)), by 
                striking ``United States International Development 
                Cooperation Agency'' and inserting ``Agency for 
                International Development''.
            (5) Repeal.--Section 413 of Public Law 96-53 (22 U.S.C. 
        3512) is repealed.
            (6) Title 49.--Section 40118(d) of title 49, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``the Director of the United States 
        International Development Cooperation Agency'' and inserting 
        ``or the Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development''.
            (7) Export administration act of 1979.--Section 2405(g) of 
        the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(g)) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the United States 
                International Development Cooperation Agency'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``Administrator of the 
                Agency for International Development''; and
                    (B) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``Director'' 
                and inserting ``Administrator''.

             TITLE XV--AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                      CHAPTER 1--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1501. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6581 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title, and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect 
on the earlier of--
            (1) April 1, 1999; or
            (2) the date of reorganization of the Agency for 
        International Development pursuant to the reorganization plan 
        described in section 1601.

           CHAPTER 2--REORGANIZATION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS

SEC. 1511. REORGANIZATION OF AGENCY FOR <<NOTE: 22 USC 
            6581.>> INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Agency for International Development shall be 
reorganized in accordance with this subdivision and the reorganization 
plan transmitted pursuant to section 1601.
    (b) Functions To Be Transferred.--The reorganization of the Agency 
for International Development shall provide, at a

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-794]]

minimum, for the transfer to and consolidation with the Department of 
State of the following functions of AID:
            (1) The Press office.
            (2) Certain administrative functions.

            CHAPTER 3--AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

SEC. 1521. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6591.>> DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES 
            ASSISTANCE.

    In this chapter, the term ``United States assistance'' means 
development and other economic assistance, including assistance made 
available under the following provisions of law:
            (1) Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 (relating to development assistance).
            (2) Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 (relating to the economic support fund).
            (3) Chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 (relating to the Development Fund for Africa).
            (4) Chapter 11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 (relating to assistance for the independent states of the 
        former Soviet Union).
            (5) The Support for East European Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 
        5401 et seq.).

SEC. 1522. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6592.>> ADMINISTRATOR OF AID REPORTING TO THE 
            SECRETARY OF STATE.

    The Administrator of the Agency for International Development, 
appointed pursuant to section 624(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2384(a)), shall report to and be under the direct 
authority and foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State.

SEC. 1523. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6593.>> ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS COORDINATION AND 
            OVERSIGHT.

    (a) Authority of the Secretary of State.--
            (1) In general.--Under the direction of the President, the 
        Secretary of State shall coordinate all United States assistance 
        in accordance with this section, except as provided in 
        paragraphs (2) and (3).
            (2) Export promotion activities.--Coordination of activities 
        relating to promotion of exports of United States goods and 
        services shall continue to be primarily the responsibility of 
        the Secretary of Commerce.
            (3) International economic activities.--Coordination of 
        activities relating to United States participation in 
        international financial institutions and relating to 
        organization of multilateral efforts aimed at currency 
        stabilization, currency convertibility, debt reduction, and 
        comprehensive economic reform programs shall continue to be 
        primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of the Treasury.
            (4) Authorities and powers of the secretary of state.--The 
        powers and authorities of the Secretary provided in this chapter 
        are in addition to the powers and authorities provided to the 
        Secretary under any other Act, including section 101(b) and 
        section 622(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2151(b), 2382(c)).

    (b) Coordination Activities.--Coordination activities of the 
Secretary of State under subsection (a) shall include--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-795]]

            (1) approving an overall assistance and economic cooperation 
        strategy;
            (2) ensuring program and policy coordination among agencies 
        of the United States Government in carrying out the policies set 
        forth in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the Arms Export 
        Control Act, and other relevant assistance Acts;
            (3) pursuing coordination with other countries and 
        international organizations; and
            (4) resolving policy, program, and funding disputes among 
        United States Government agencies.

    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to lessen the accountability of any Federal agency 
administering any program, project, or activity of United States 
assistance for any funds made available to the Federal agency for that 
purpose.
    (d) Authority To Provide Personnel of the Agency for International 
Development.--The Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development is authorized to detail to the Department of State on a 
nonreimbursable basis such personnel employed by the Agency as the 
Secretary of State may require to carry out this section.

                          TITLE XVI--TRANSITION

                     CHAPTER 1--REORGANIZATION PLAN

SEC. 1601. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 6601.>> REORGANIZATION PLAN AND 
            REPORT.

    (a) Submission of Plan and Report.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a reorganization plan and report 
regarding--
            (1) the abolition of the United States Arms Control and 
        Disarmament Agency, the United States Information Agency, and 
        the United States International Development Cooperation Agency 
        in accordance with this subdivision;
            (2) with respect to the Agency for International 
        Development, the consolidation and streamlining of the Agency 
        and the transfer of certain functions of the Agency to the 
        Department in accordance with section 1511;
            (3) the termination of functions of each covered agency as 
        may be necessary to effectuate the reorganization under this 
        subdivision, and the termination of the affairs of each agency 
        abolished under this subdivision;
            (4) the transfer to the Department of the functions and 
        personnel of each covered agency consistent with the provisions 
        of this subdivision; and
            (5) the consolidation, reorganization, and streamlining of 
        the Department in connection with the transfer of such functions 
        and personnel in order to carry out such functions.

    (b) Covered Agencies.--The agencies covered by this section are the 
following:
            (1) The United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
            (2) The United States Information Agency.
            (3) The United States International Development Cooperation 
        Agency.
            (4) The Agency for International Development.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-796]]

    (c) Plan Elements.--The plan transmitted under subsection (a) shall 
contain, consistent with this subdivision, such elements as the 
President deems appropriate, including elements that--
            (1) identify the functions of each covered agency that will 
        be transferred to the Department under the plan;
            (2) specify the steps to be taken by the Secretary of State 
        to reorganize internally the functions of the Department, 
        including the consolidation of offices and functions, that will 
        be required under the plan in order to permit the Department to 
        carry out the functions transferred to it under the plan;
            (3) specify the funds available to each covered agency that 
        will be transferred to the Department as a result of the 
        transfer of functions of such agency to the Department;
            (4) specify the proposed allocations within the Department 
        of unexpended funds transferred in connection with the transfer 
        of functions under the plan; and
            (5) specify the proposed disposition of the property, 
        facilities, contracts, records, and other assets and liabilities 
        of each covered agency in connection with the transfer of the 
        functions of such agency to the Department.

    (d) Reorganization Plan of Agency for International Development.--In 
addition to applicable provisions of subsection (c), the reorganization 
plan transmitted under this section for the Agency for International 
Development--
            (1) may provide for the abolition of the Agency for 
        International Development and the transfer of all its functions 
        to the Department of State; or
            (2) in lieu of the abolition and transfer of functions under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall provide for the transfer to and 
                consolidation within the Department of the functions set 
                forth in section 1511; and
                    (B) may provide for additional consolidation, 
                reorganization, and streamlining of AID, including--
                          (i) the termination of functions and 
                      reductions in personnel of AID;
                          (ii) the transfer of functions of AID, and the 
                      personnel associated with such functions, to the 
                      Department; and
                          (iii) the consolidation, reorganization, and 
                      streamlining of the Department upon the transfer 
                      of such functions and personnel in order to carry 
                      out the functions transferred.

    (e) Modification of Plan.--The President may, on the basis of 
consultations with the appropriate congressional committees, modify or 
revise any part of the plan transmitted under subsection (a) until that 
part of the plan becomes effective in accordance with subsection (g).
    (f) Report.--The report accompanying the reorganization plan for the 
Department and the covered agencies submitted pursuant to this section 
shall describe the implementation of the plan and shall include--
            (1) a detailed description of--
                    (A) the actions necessary or planned to complete the 
                reorganization,
                    (B) the anticipated nature and substance of any 
                orders, directives, and other administrative and 
                operational actions

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-797]]

                which are expected to be required for completing or 
                implementing the reorganization, and
                    (C) any preliminary actions which have been taken in 
                the implementation process;
            (2) the number of personnel and positions of each covered 
        agency (including civil service personnel, Foreign Service 
        personnel, and detailees) that are expected to be transferred to 
        the Department, separated from service with such agency, or 
        eliminated under the plan, and a projected schedule for such 
        transfers, separations, and terminations;
            (3) the number of personnel and positions of the Department 
        (including civil service personnel, Foreign Service personnel, 
        and detailees) that are expected to be transferred within the 
        Department, separated from service with the Department, or 
        eliminated under the plan, and a projected schedule for such 
        transfers, separations, and terminations;
            (4) a projected schedule for completion of the 
        implementation process; and
            (5) recommendations, if any, for legislation necessary to 
        carry out changes made by this subdivision relating to personnel 
        and to incidental transfers.

    (g) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The reorganization plan described in this 
        section, including any modifications or revisions of the plan 
        under subsection (e), shall become effective on the earlier of 
        the date for the respective covered agency specified in 
        paragraph (2) or the date announced by the President under 
        paragraph (3).
            (2) Statutory effective dates.--The effective dates under 
        this paragraph for the reorganization plan described in this 
        section are the following:
                    (A) April 1, 1999, with respect to functions of the 
                Agency for International Development described in 
                section 1511.
                    (B) April 1, 1999, with respect to the abolition of 
                the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency 
                and the United States International Development 
                Cooperation Agency.
                    (C) October 1, 1999, with respect to the abolition 
                of the United States Information Agency.
             <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> (3) Effective date 
        by presidential determination.--An effective date under this 
        paragraph for a reorganization plan described in this section is 
        such date as the President shall determine to be appropriate and 
        announce by notice published in the Federal Register, which date 
        may be not earlier than 90 calendar days after the President has 
        transmitted the reorganization plan to the appropriate 
        congressional committees pursuant to subsection (a).
            (4) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to require the transfer of functions, personnel, 
        records, balance of appropriations, or other assets of a covered 
        agency on a single date.
             <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (5) Supersedes existing law.--
        Paragraph (1) shall apply notwithstanding section 905(b) of 
        title 5, United States Code.

    (h) Publication.--The <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
publication.>> reorganization plan described in this section shall be 
printed in the Federal Register after the date upon which it first 
becomes effective.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-798]]

                   CHAPTER 2--REORGANIZATION AUTHORITY

SEC. 1611. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6611.>> REORGANIZATION AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized, subject to the 
requirements of this subdivision, to allocate or reallocate any function 
transferred to the Department under any title of this subdivision, and 
to establish, consolidate, alter, or discontinue such organizational 
entities within the Department as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any reorganization under this subdivision, but this subsection 
does not authorize the Secretary to modify the terms of any statute that 
establishes or defines the functions of any bureau, office, or officer 
of the Department.
    (b) Requirements and Limitations on Reorganization Plan.--The 
reorganization plan transmitted under section 1601 may not have the 
effect of--
            (1) creating a new executive department;
            (2) continuing a function beyond the period authorized by 
        law for its exercise or beyond the time when it would have 
        terminated if the reorganization had not been made;
            (3) authorizing a Federal agency to exercise a function 
        which is not authorized by law at the time the plan is 
        transmitted to Congress;
            (4) creating a new Federal agency which is not a component 
        or part of an existing executive department or independent 
        agency; or
            (5) increasing the term of an office beyond that provided by 
        law for the office.

SEC. 1612. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6612.>> TRANSFER AND ALLOCATION OF 
            APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, 
the assets, liabilities (including contingent liabilities arising from 
suits continued with a substitution or addition of parties under section 
1615(e)), contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of 
appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, 
held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in 
connection with the functions and offices, or portions thereof, 
transferred by any title of this subdivision shall be transferred to the 
Secretary for appropriate allocation.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Transferred Funds.--Except as provided in 
subsection (c), unexpended and unobligated funds transferred pursuant to 
any title of this subdivision shall be used only for the purposes for 
which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated.
    (c) Funds To Facilitate Transition.--
            (1) Congressional notification.--Funds transferred pursuant 
        to subsection (a) may be available for the purposes of 
        reorganization subject to notification of the appropriate 
        congressional committees in accordance with the procedures 
        applicable to a reprogramming of funds under section 34 of the 
        State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706).
            (2) Transfer authority.--Funds in any account appropriated 
        to the Department of State may be transferred to another such 
        account for the purposes of reorganization, subject to 
        notification of the appropriate congressional committees in 
        accordance with the procedures applicable to a reprogramming of 
        funds under section 34 of the State Department Basic

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-799]]

        Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706). The authority in this 
        paragraph is in addition to any other transfer authority 
        available to the Secretary of State and shall expire September 
        30, 2000.

SEC. 1613. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6613.>> TRANSFER, APPOINTMENT, AND ASSIGNMENT 
            OF PERSONNEL.

    (a) Transfer of Personnel From ACDA and USIA.--Except as otherwise 
provided in title XIII--
            (1) not later than the date of abolition of ACDA, all 
        personnel and positions of ACDA, and
            (2) not later than the date of abolition of USIA, all 
        personnel and positions of USIA,

shall be transferred to the Department of State at the same grade or 
class and the same rate of basic pay or basic salary rate and with the 
same tenure held immediately preceding transfer.
    (b) Transfer of Personnel From AID.--Except as otherwise provided in 
title XIII, not later than the date of transfer of any function of AID 
to the Department of State under this subdivision, all AID personnel 
performing such functions and all positions associated with such 
functions shall be transferred to the Department of State at the same 
grade or class and the same rate of basic pay or basic salary rate and 
with the same tenure held immediately preceding transfer.
    (c) Assignment Authority.--The Secretary, for a period of not more 
than 6 months commencing on the effective date of the transfer to the 
Department of State of personnel under subsections (a) and (b), is 
authorized to assign such personnel to any position or set of duties in 
the Department of State regardless of the position held or duties 
performed by such personnel prior to transfer, except that, by virtue of 
such assignment, such personnel shall not have their grade or class or 
their rate of basic pay or basic salary rate reduced, nor their tenure 
changed.
The Secretary shall consult with the relevant exclusive representatives 
(as defined in section 1002 of the Foreign Service Act and in section 
7103 of title 5, United States Code) with regard to the exercise of this 
authority. This subsection does not authorize the Secretary to assign 
any individual to any position that by law requires appointment by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
      (d) Superseding Other Provisions of Law.--Subsections (a) through 
(c) shall be exercised notwithstanding any other provision of law.

SEC. 1614. INCIDENTAL <<NOTE: 22 USC 6614.>> TRANSFERS.
      The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, when 
requested by the Secretary, is authorized to make such incidental 
dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, 
property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, 
authorizations, allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, 
available to, or to be made available in connection with such functions, 
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of any title of this 
subdivision. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
consultation with the Secretary, shall provide for the termination of 
the affairs of all entities terminated by this subdivision and for such 
further measures and dispositions as may be necessary to effectuate the 
purposes of any title of this subdivision.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-800]]

SEC. 1615. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6615.>> SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
      (a) Continuing Legal Force and Effect.--All orders, 
determinations, rules, regulations, permits, agreements, grants, 
contracts, certificates, licenses, registrations, privileges, and other 
administrative actions--
            (1) that have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to 
        become effective by the President, any Federal agency or 
        official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in 
        the performance of functions that are transferred under any 
        title of this subdivision; and
            (2) that are in effect as of the effective date of such 
        title, or were final before the effective date of such title and 
        are to become effective on or after the effective date of such 
        title,

shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, 
terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by 
the President, the Secretary, or other authorized official, a court of 
competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
      (b) Pending Proceedings.--
            (1) In general.--The provisions of any title of this 
        subdivision shall not affect any proceedings, including notices 
        of proposed rulemaking, or any application for any license, 
        permit, certificate, or financial assistance pending on the 
        effective date of any title of this subdivision before any 
        Federal agency, commission, or component thereof, functions of 
        which are transferred by any title of this subdivision. Such 
        proceedings and applications, to the extent that they relate to 
        functions so transferred, shall be continued.
            (2) Orders, appeals, payments.--Orders shall be issued in 
        such proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments 
        shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this subdivision 
        had not been enacted. Orders issued in any such proceedings 
        shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, 
        or revoked by the Secretary, by a court of competent 
        jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
            (3) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this subdivision 
        shall be deemed to prohibit the discontinuance or modification 
        of any such proceeding under the same terms and conditions and 
        to the same extent that such proceeding could have been 
        discontinued or modified if this subdivision had not been 
        enacted.
            (4) Regulations.--The Secretary is authorized to promulgate 
        regulations providing for the orderly transfer of proceedings 
        continued under this subsection to the Department.

    (c) No Effect on Judicial or Administrative Proceedings.--Except as 
provided in subsection (e) and section 1327(d)--
            (1) the provisions of this subdivision shall not affect 
        suits commenced prior to the effective dates of the respective 
        titles of this subdivision; and
            (2) in all such suits, proceedings shall be had, appeals 
        taken, and judgments rendered in the same manner and effect as 
        if this subdivision had not been enacted.

    (d) Nonabatement of Proceedings.--No suit, action, or other 
proceeding commenced by or against any officer in the official capacity 
of such individual as an officer of any Federal agency, or any 
commission or component thereof, functions of which are transferred by 
any title of this subdivision, shall abate by reason of the enactment of 
this subdivision. No cause of action by or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-801]]

against any Federal agency, or any commission or component thereof, 
functions of which are transferred by any title of this subdivision, or 
by or against any officer thereof in the official capacity of such 
officer shall abate by reason of the enactment of this subdivision.
    (e) Continuation of Proceeding With Substitution of Parties.--If, 
before the effective date of any title of this subdivision, any Federal 
agency, or officer thereof in the official capacity of such officer, is 
a party to a suit, and under this subdivision any function of such 
department, agency, or officer is transferred to the Secretary or any 
other official of the Department, then effective on such date such suit 
shall be continued with the Secretary or other appropriate official of 
the Department substituted or added as a party.
    (f) Reviewability of Orders and Actions Under Transferred 
Functions.--Orders and actions of the Secretary in the exercise of 
functions transferred under any title of this subdivision shall be 
subject to judicial review to the same extent and in the same manner as 
if such orders and actions had been by the Federal agency or office, or 
part thereof, exercising such functions immediately preceding their 
transfer. Any statutory requirements relating to notice, hearings, 
action upon the record, or administrative review that apply to any 
function transferred by any title of this subdivision shall apply to the 
exercise of such function by the Secretary.

SEC. 1616. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6616.>> AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF STATE TO 
            FACILITATE TRANSITION.

    Notwithstanding any provision of this subdivision, the Secretary of 
State, with the concurrence of the head of the appropriate Federal 
agency exercising functions transferred under this subdivision, may 
transfer the whole or part of such functions prior to the effective 
dates established in this subdivision, including the transfer of 
personnel and funds associated with such functions.

SEC. 1617. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 6617.>> FINAL REPORT.

    Not later than January 1, 2001, the President, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report which provides a final accounting of the finances 
and operations of the agencies abolished under this subdivision.

SUBDIVISION B--FOREIGN RELATIONS <<NOTE: Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999. 22 USC 2651 note.>> AUTHORIZATION

                      TITLE XX--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This subdivision may be cited as the ``Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999''.

SEC. 2002. DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.

    In this subdivision, the term ``appropriate congressional 
committees'' means the Committee on International Relations of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-802]]

   TITLE XXI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SEC. 2101. ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

    The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of State under ``Administration of Foreign Affairs'' to carry 
out the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities in the 
conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States and for other 
purposes authorized by law, including the diplomatic security program:
            (1) Diplomatic and consular programs.--For ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'', of the Department of State $1,730,000,000 
        for the fiscal year 1998 and $1,644,300,000 for the fiscal year 
        1999.
            (2) Salaries and expenses.--
                    (A) Authorization of appropriations.--For ``Salaries 
                and Expenses'', of the Department of State $363,513,000 
                for the fiscal year 1998 and $355,000,000 for the fiscal 
                year 1999.
                    (B) Limitations.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated by subparagraph (A), $2,000,000 for fiscal 
                year 1998 and $2,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999 are 
                authorized to be appropriated only for the recruitment 
                of minorities for careers in the Foreign Service and 
                international affairs.
            (3) Capital investment fund.--For ``Capital Investment 
        Fund'', of the Department of State $86,000,000 for the fiscal 
        year 1998 and $80,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (4) Security and maintenance of united states missions.--For 
        ``Security and Maintenance of United States Missions'', 
        $404,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $403,561,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.
            (5) Representation allowances.--For ``Representation 
        Allowances'', $4,200,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $4,350,000 
        for the fiscal year 1999.
            (6) Emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service.--For 
        ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', 
        $5,500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $5,500,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.
            (7) Office of the inspector general.--For ``Office of the 
        Inspector General'', $27,495,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
        $27,495,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (8) Payment to the american institute in taiwan.--For 
        ``Payment to the American Institute in Taiwan'', $14,000,000 for 
        the fiscal year 1998 and $14,750,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (9) Protection of foreign missions and officials.--(A) For 
        ``Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials'', $7,900,000 for 
        the fiscal year 1998 and $8,100,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (B) Each amount appropriated pursuant to this paragraph is 
        authorized to remain available through
September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the 
amount appropriated was made.
            (10) Repatriation loans.--For ``Repatriation Loans'', 
        $1,200,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $1,200,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999, for administrative expenses.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-803]]

SEC. 2102. INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS.

    The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated under 
``International Commissions'' for the Department of State to carry out 
the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities in the conduct 
of the foreign affairs of the United States and for other purposes 
authorized by law:
            (1) International boundary and water commission, united 
        states and mexico.--For ``International Boundary and Water 
        Commission, United States and Mexico''--
                    (A) for ``Salaries and Expenses'' $17,490,000 for 
                the fiscal year 1998 and $19,551,000 for the fiscal year 
                1999; and
                    (B) for ``Construction'' $6,463,000 for the fiscal 
                year 1998 and $6,463,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (2) International boundary commission, united states and 
        canada.--For ``International Boundary Commission, United States 
        and Canada'', $761,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $761,000 for 
        the fiscal year 1999.
            (3) International joint commission.--For ``International 
        Joint Commission'', $3,189,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
        $3,432,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (4) International fisheries commissions.--For 
        ``International Fisheries Commissions'', $14,549,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1998 and $14,549,000 for the fiscal year 1999.

SEC. 2103. GRANTS TO THE ASIA FOUNDATION.

    Section 404 of The Asia Foundation Act (title IV of Public Law 98-
164) <<NOTE: 22 USC 4403.>> is amended to read as follows:

    ``Sec. 404. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
of State $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1998 and 1999 for 
grants to The Asia Foundation pursuant to this title.''.

SEC. 2104. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for ``Voluntary Contributions to International 
Organizations'', $194,500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $214,000,000 
for the fiscal year 1999.
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) World food program.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under subsection (a), $4,000,000 for the fiscal 
        year 1998 and $2,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999 are authorized 
        to be appropriated only for a United States contribution to the 
        World Food Program.
            (2) United nations voluntary fund for victims of torture.--
        Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
        (a), $3,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $3,000,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999 are authorized to be appropriated only for a 
        United States contribution to the United Nations Voluntary Fund 
        for Victims of Torture.
            (3) International program on the elimination of child 
        labor.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under 
        subsection (a), $5,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
        $5,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999 are authorized to be 
        appropriated only for a United States contribution to the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-804]]

        International Labor Organization for the activities of the 
        International Program on the Elimination of Child Labor.

    (c) Availability of Funds.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
under subsection (a) are authorized to remain available until expended.

SEC. 2105. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', $77,500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $83,000,000 for 
the fiscal year 1999 for the Department of State to carry out section 
551 of Public Law 87-195.

SEC. 2106. <<NOTE: President.>> LIMITATION ON UNITED STATES VOLUNTARY 
            CONTRIBUTIONS TO UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Limitation.--Of the amounts made available for fiscal years 1998 
and 1999 for United States voluntary contributions to the United Nations 
Development Program an amount equal to the amount the United Nations 
Development Program will spend in Burma during each fiscal year shall be 
withheld unless during such fiscal year the President submits to the 
appropriate congressional committees the certification described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification referred to in subsection (a) 
is a certification by the President that all programs and activities of 
the United Nations Development Program (including United Nations 
Development Program--Administered Funds) in Burma--
            (1) are focused on eliminating human suffering and 
        addressing the needs of the poor;
            (2) are undertaken only through international or private 
        voluntary organizations that have been deemed independent of the 
        State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), after 
        consultation with the leadership of the National League for 
        Democracy and the leadership of the National Coalition 
        Government of the Union of Burma;
            (3) provide no financial, political, or military benefit to 
        the SLORC; and
            (4) are carried out only after consultation with the 
        leadership of the National League for Democracy and the 
        leadership of the National Coalition Government of the Union of 
        Burma.

       TITLE XXII--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

                  CHAPTER 1--AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2201. REIMBURSEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR ASSISTANCE TO 
            OVERSEAS EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.

    Section 29 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2701) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, where the child of a 
United States citizen employee of an agency of the United States 
Government who is stationed outside the United States attends an 
educational facility assisted by the Secretary of State under this 
section, the head of that agency is authorized to reimburse, or credit 
with advance payment, the Department of State for funds used in 
providing assistance to such educational facilities, by grant or 
otherwise, under this section.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-805]]

SEC. 2202. REVISION OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE REWARDS PROGRAM.

    Section 36 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2708) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 36. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2708.>> DEPARTMENT OF STATE REWARDS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established a program for the 
        payment of rewards to carry out the purposes of this section.
            ``(2) Purpose.--The rewards program shall be designed to 
        assist in the prevention of acts of international terrorism, 
        international narcotics trafficking, and other related criminal 
        acts.
            ``(3) Implementation.--The rewards program shall be 
        administered by the Secretary of State, in consultation, as 
        appropriate, with the Attorney General.

    ``(b) Rewards Authorized.--In the sole discretion of the Secretary 
(except as provided in subsection (c)(2)) and in consultation, as 
appropriate, with the Attorney General, the Secretary may pay a reward 
to any individual who furnishes information leading to--
            ``(1) the arrest or conviction in any country of any 
        individual for the commission of an act of international 
        terrorism against a United States person or United States 
        property;
            ``(2) the arrest or conviction in any country of any 
        individual conspiring or attempting to commit an act of 
        international terrorism against a United States person or United 
        States property;
            ``(3) the arrest or conviction in any country of any 
        individual for committing, primarily outside the territorial 
        jurisdiction of the United States, any narcotics-related offense 
        if that offense involves or is a significant part of conduct 
        that involves--
                    ``(A) a violation of United States narcotics laws 
                such that the individual would be a major violator of 
                such laws;
                    ``(B) the killing or kidnapping of--
                          ``(i) any officer, employee, or contract 
                      employee of the United States Government while 
                      such individual is engaged in official duties, or 
                      on account of that individual's official duties, 
                      in connection with the enforcement of United 
                      States narcotics laws or the implementing of 
                      United States narcotics control objectives; or
                          ``(ii) a member of the immediate family of any 
                      such individual on account of that individual's 
                      official duties, in connection with the 
                      enforcement of United States narcotics laws or the 
                      implementing of United States narcotics control 
                      objectives; or
                    ``(C) an attempt or conspiracy to commit any act 
                described in subparagraph (A) or (B);
            ``(4) the arrest or conviction in any country of any 
        individual aiding or abetting in the commission of an act 
        described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3); or
            ``(5) the prevention, frustration, or favorable resolution 
        of an act described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).

    ``(c) Coordination.--
            ``(1) Procedures.--To ensure that the payment of rewards 
        pursuant to this section does not duplicate or interfere with 
        the payment of informants or the obtaining of evidence or 
        information, as authorized to the Department of Justice, the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-806]]

        offering, administration, and payment of rewards under this 
        section, including procedures for--
                    ``(A) identifying individuals, organizations, and 
                offenses with respect to which rewards will be offered;
                    ``(B) the publication of rewards;
                    ``(C) the offering of joint rewards with foreign 
                governments;
                    ``(D) the receipt and analysis of data; and
                    ``(E) the payment and approval of payment,

shall be governed by procedures developed by the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Attorney General.
            ``(2) Prior approval of attorney general required.--Before 
        making a reward under this section in a matter over which there 
        is Federal criminal jurisdiction, the Secretary of State shall 
        obtain the concurrence of the Attorney General.

    ``(d) Funding.--
            ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--Notwithstanding 
        section 102 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
        Years 1986 and 1987 (Public Law 99-93; 99 Stat. 408), but 
        subject to paragraph (2), there are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Department of State from time to time such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out this section.
            ``(2) Limitation.--No amount of funds may be appropriated 
        under paragraph (1) which, when added to the unobligated balance 
        of amounts previously appropriated to carry out this section, 
        would cause such amounts to exceed $15,000,000.
            ``(3) Allocation of funds.--To the maximum extent 
        practicable, funds made available to carry out this section 
        should be distributed equally for the purpose of preventing acts 
        of international terrorism and for the purpose of preventing 
        international narcotics trafficking.
            ``(4) Period of availability.--Amounts appropriated under 
        paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.

    ``(e) Limitations and Certification.--
            ``(1) Maximum amount.--No reward paid under this section may 
        exceed $2,000,000.
            ``(2) Approval.--A reward under this section of more than 
        $100,000 may not be made without the approval of the Secretary.
            ``(3) Certification for payment.--Any reward granted under 
        this section shall be approved and certified for payment by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(4) Nondelegation of authority.--The authority to approve 
        rewards of more than $100,000 set forth in paragraph (2) may not 
        be delegated.
            ``(5) Protection measures.--If the Secretary determines that 
        the identity of the recipient of a reward or of the members of 
        the recipient's immediate family must be protected, the 
        Secretary may take such measures in connection with the payment 
        of the reward as he considers necessary to effect such 
        protection.

    ``(f) Ineligibility.--An officer or employee of any entity of 
Federal, State, or local government or of a foreign government who, 
while in the performance of his or her official duties, furnishes 
information described in subsection (b) shall not be eligible for a 
reward under this section.
    ``(g) Reports.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-807]]

            ``(1) Reports on payment of rewards.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the payment of any reward under this section, the 
        Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees with respect to such reward. The report, which may be 
        submitted in classified form if necessary, shall specify the 
        amount of the reward paid, to whom the reward was paid, and the 
        acts with respect to which the reward was paid. The report shall 
        also discuss the significance of the information for which the 
        reward was paid in dealing with those acts.
            ``(2) Annual reports.--Not later than 60 days after the end 
        of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees with respect to the 
        operation of the rewards program. The report shall provide 
        information on the total amounts expended during the fiscal year 
        ending in that year to carry out this section, including amounts 
        expended to publicize the availability of rewards.

    ``(h) Publication Regarding Rewards Offered by Foreign 
Governments.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in 
the sole discretion of the Secretary, the resources of the rewards 
program shall be available for the publication of rewards offered by 
foreign governments regarding acts of international terrorism which do 
not involve United States persons or property or a violation of the 
narcotics laws of the United States.
    ``(i) Determinations of the Secretary.--A determination made by the 
Secretary under this section shall be final and conclusive and shall not 
be subject to judicial review.
    ``(j) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            ``(1) Act of international terrorism.--The term `act of 
        international terrorism' includes--
                    ``(A) any act substantially contributing to the 
                acquisition of unsafeguarded special nuclear material 
                (as defined in paragraph (8) of section 830 of the 
                Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 
                3201 note)) or any nuclear explosive device (as defined 
                in paragraph (4) of that section) by an individual, 
                group, or non-nuclear-weapon state (as defined in 
                paragraph (5) of that section); and
                    ``(B) any act, as determined by the Secretary, which 
                materially supports the conduct of international 
                terrorism, including the counterfeiting of United States 
                currency or the illegal use of other monetary 
                instruments by an individual, group, or country 
                supporting international terrorism as determined for 
                purposes of section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export 
                Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 
                2405(j)(1)(A)).
            ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            ``(3) Member of the immediate family.--The term `member of 
        the immediate family', with respect to an individual, includes--
                    ``(A) a spouse, parent, brother, sister, or child of 
                the individual;
                    ``(B) a person with respect to whom the individual 
                stands in loco parentis; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-808]]

                    ``(C) any person not covered by subparagraph (A) or 
                (B) who is living in the individual's household and is 
                related to the individual by blood or marriage.
            ``(4) Rewards program.--The term `rewards program' means the 
        program established in subsection (a)(1).
            ``(5) United states narcotics laws.--The term `United States 
        narcotics laws' means the laws of the United States for the 
        prevention and control of illicit trafficking in controlled 
        substances (as such term is defined in section 102(6) of the 
        Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6))).
            ``(6) United states person.--The term `United States person' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a citizen or national of the United States; 
                and
                    ``(B) an alien lawfully present in the United 
                States.''.

SEC. 2203. RETENTION OF ADDITIONAL DEFENSE TRADE CONTROLS REGISTRATION 
            FEES.

    Section 45(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2717(a)) is amended--
            (1) at the end of paragraph (1), by striking ``and'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``functions'' and inserting 
                ``functions, including compliance and enforcement 
                activities,''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the enhancement of defense trade export compliance and 
        enforcement activities, including compliance audits of United 
        States and foreign parties, the conduct of administrative 
        proceedings, monitoring of end-uses in cases of direct 
        commercial arms sales or other transfers, and cooperation in 
        proceedings for enforcement of criminal laws related to defense 
        trade export controls.''.

SEC. 2204. FEES FOR COMMERCIAL SERVICES.

    Section 52(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2724(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``Funds deposited under this subsection shall remain available for 
obligation through September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal 
year in which the funds were deposited.''.

SEC. 2205. PILOT PROGRAM FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS REIMBURSEMENT.

    (a) Foreign Affairs Reimbursement.--
            (1) In general.--Section 701 of the Foreign Service Act of 
        1980 (22 U.S.C. 4021) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (d)(4) as subsection 
                (g); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (d) the following 
                new subsections:

    ``(e)(1) The Secretary may provide appropriate training or related 
services, except foreign language training, through the institution to 
any United States person (or any employee or family member thereof) that 
is engaged in business abroad.
    ``(2) The Secretary may provide job-related training or related 
services, including foreign language training, through the institution 
to a United States person under contract to provide services to the 
United States Government or to any employee thereof that is performing 
such services.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-809]]

    ``(3) Training under this subsection may be provided only to the 
extent that space is available and only on a reimbursable or advance-of-
funds basis. Reimbursements and advances shall be credited to the 
currently available applicable appropriation account.

    ``(4) Training and related services under this subsection is 
authorized only to the extent that it will not interfere with the 
institution's primary mission of training employees of the Department 
and of other agencies in the field of foreign relations.
    ``(5) In this subsection, the term `United States person' means--
            ``(A) any individual who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or
            ``(B) any corporation, company, partnership, association, or 
        other legal entity that is 50 percent or more beneficially owned 
        by citizens or nationals of the United States.

    ``(f)(1) The Secretary is authorized to provide, on a reimbursable 
basis, training programs to Members of Congress or the Judiciary.
    ``(2) Employees of the legislative branch and employees of the 
judicial branch may participate, on a reimbursable basis, in training 
programs offered by the institution.
    ``(3) Reimbursements collected under this subsection shall be 
credited to the currently available applicable appropriation account.
    ``(4) Training under this subsection is authorized only to the 
extent that it will not interfere with the institution's primary mission 
of training employees of the Department and of other agencies in the 
field of foreign relations.''.
             <<NOTE: 22 USC 4021 note.>> (2) Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 
        1998.
            (3) Termination of pilot program.--Effective October 1, 
        2002, section 701 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
        4021), as amended by this subsection, is further amended--
                    (A) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (g) as paragraph (4) 
                of subsection (d).

    (b) Fees for Use of National Foreign Affairs Training Center.--Title 
I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 53. FEES FOR USE OF THE NATIONAL FOREIGN <<NOTE: 22 USC 
            2725.>> AFFAIRS TRAINING CENTER.

    ``The Secretary is authorized to charge a fee for use of the 
National Foreign Affairs Training Center of the Department of State. 
Amounts collected under this section (including reimbursements and 
surcharges) shall be deposited as an offsetting collection to any 
Department of State appropriation to recover the costs of such use and 
shall remain available for obligation until expended.''.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2725 note.>> (c) Reporting on Pilot Program.--Two 
years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
containing--
            (1) the number of persons who have taken advantage of the 
        pilot program established under subsections (e) and (f) of 
        section 701 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 and section 53 of 
        the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as added by 
        this section;
            (2) the business or government affiliation of such persons;
            (3) the amount of fees collected; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-810]]

            (4) the impact of the program on the primary mission of the 
        National Foreign Affairs Training Center.

SEC. 2206. FEE FOR USE OF DIPLOMATIC RECEPTION ROOMS.

    Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a et seq.), as amended by this division, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 54. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2726.>> FEE FOR USE OF DIPLOMATIC RECEPTION 
            ROOMS.

    ``The Secretary is authorized to charge a fee for use of the 
diplomatic reception rooms of the Department of State. Amounts collected 
under this section (including reimbursements and surcharges) shall be 
deposited as an offsetting collection to any Department of State 
appropriation to recover the costs of such use and shall remain 
available for obligation until expended.''.

SEC. 2207. ACCOUNTING OF COLLECTIONS IN BUDGET PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS.

    Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a et seq.), as amended by this division, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 55. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2727.>> ACCOUNTING OF COLLECTIONS IN BUDGET 
            PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS.

    ``The Secretary shall include in the annual Congressional 
Presentation Document and the Budget in Brief a detailed accounting of 
the total collections received by the Department of State from all 
sources, including fee collections. Reporting on total collections shall 
also cover collections from the preceding fiscal year and the projected 
expenditures from all collections accounts.''.

SEC. 2208. OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    (a) Procedures.--Section 209(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 3929(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) The Inspector General shall develop and provide to 
        employees--
                    ``(A) information detailing their rights to counsel; 
                and
                    ``(B) guidelines describing in general terms the 
                policies and procedures of the Office of Inspector 
                General with respect to individuals under investigation 
                other than matters exempt from disclosure under other 
                provisions of law.''.

    (b) Notice.--Section 209(e) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 3929(e)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(3) The Inspector General shall ensure that only officials from 
the Office of the Inspector General may participate in formal interviews 
or other formal meetings with the individual who is the subject of an 
investigation, other than an intelligence-related or sensitive 
undercover investigation, or except in those situations when the 
Inspector General has a reasonable basis to believe that such notice 
would cause tampering with witnesses, destroying evidence, or 
endangering the lives of individuals, unless that individual receives 
prior adequate notice regarding participation by officials of any other 
agency, including the Department of Justice, in such interviews or 
meetings.''.
    (c) Report.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-811]]

            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department 
        of State and the Foreign Service shall submit a report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees which includes the 
        following:
                    (A) Detailed descriptions of the internal guidance 
                developed or used by the Office of the Inspector General 
                with respect to public disclosure of any information 
                related to an ongoing investigation of any officer or 
                employee of the Department of State, the United States 
                Information Agency, or the United States Arms Control 
                and Disarmament Agency.
                    (B) Detailed descriptions of those instances for the 
                year ending December 31, 1997, in which any disclosure 
                of information to the public by an employee of the 
                Office of Inspector General about an ongoing 
                investigation occurred, including details on the 
                recipient of the information, the date of the 
                disclosure, and the internal clearance process for the 
                disclosure.
            (2) Statutory construction.--Disclosure of information to 
        the public under this section shall not be construed to include 
        information shared with Congress by an employee of the Office of 
        the Inspector General.

SEC. 2209. CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND.

    Section 135 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 2684a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and enhancement'' 
        after ``procurement'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``are authorized to'' and 
        inserting ``shall'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``for expenditure to 
        procure capital equipment and information technology'' and 
        inserting ``for purposes of subsection (a)''; and
            (4) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:

    ``(e) Reprogramming Procedures.--Funds credited to the Capital 
Investment Fund shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming 
notifications under section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706).''.

SEC. 2210. CONTRACTING FOR LOCAL GUARDS SERVICES OVERSEAS.

    Section 136(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 4864(c)) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) in evaluating proposals for such contracts, award 
        contracts to the technically acceptable firm offering the lowest 
        evaluated price, except that proposals of United States persons 
        and qualified United States joint venture persons (as defined in 
        subsection (d)) shall be evaluated by reducing the bid price by 
        10 percent;'';
            (2) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (5);
            (3) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (6) and 
        inserting a period; and
            (4) by striking paragraph (7).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-812]]

SEC. 2211. AUTHORITY OF THE FOREIGN CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMISSION.

    Section 4(a) of the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949 (22 
U.S.C. 1623(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs 
        (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) in the first sentence, by striking ``(a) The'' and all 
        that follows through the period and inserting the following:

    ``(a)(1) The Commission shall have jurisdiction to receive, examine, 
adjudicate, and render a final decision with respect to any claim of the 
Government of the United States or of any national of the United 
States--
            ``(A) included within the terms of the Yugoslav Claims 
        Agreement of 1948;
            ``(B) included within the terms of any claims agreement 
        concluded on or after March 10, 1954, between the Government of 
        the United States and a foreign government (exclusive of 
        governments against which the United States declared the 
        existence of a state of war during World War II) similarly 
        providing for the settlement and discharge of claims of the 
        Government of the United States and of nationals of the United 
        States against a foreign government, arising out of the 
        nationalization or other taking of property, by the agreement of 
        the Government of the United States to accept from that 
        government a sum in en bloc settlement thereof; or
            ``(C) included in a category of claims against a foreign 
        government which is referred to the Commission by the Secretary 
        of State.''; and
            (3) by redesignating the second sentence as paragraph (2).

SEC. 2212. EXPENSES RELATING TO CERTAIN INTERNATIONAL CLAIMS AND 
            PROCEEDINGS.

    (a) Recovery of Certain Expenses.--The Department of State 
Appropriation Act of 1937 (22 U.S.C. 2661) is amended in the fifth 
undesignated paragraph under the heading entitled ``international 
fisheries commission'' by inserting ``(including such expenses as 
salaries and other personnel expenses)'' after ``extraordinary 
expenses''.
    (b) Procurement of Services.--Section 38(c) of the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2710(c)) is amended in the 
first sentence by inserting ``personal and'' before ``other support 
services''.

SEC. 2213. GRANTS TO REMEDY INTERNATIONAL ABDUCTIONS OF CHILDREN.

    Section 7 of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act (42 
U.S.C. 11606; Public Law 100-300) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(e) Grant Authority.--The United States Central Authority is 
authorized to make grants to, or enter into contracts or agreements 
with, any individual, corporation, other Federal, State, or local 
agency, or private entity or organization in the United States for 
purposes of accomplishing its responsibilities under the Convention and 
this Act.''.

SEC. 2214. COUNTERDRUG AND ANTICRIME ACTIVITIES OF <<NOTE: 22 USC 
            6561.>> THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

    (a) Counterdrug and Law Enforcement Strategy.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-813]]

            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall establish, 
        implement, and submit to Congress a comprehensive, long-term 
        strategy to carry out the counterdrug responsibilities of the 
        Department of State in a manner consistent with the National 
        Drug Control Strategy. The strategy shall involve all elements 
        of the Department in the United States and abroad.
            (2) Objectives.--In establishing the strategy, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) coordinate with the Office of National Drug 
                Control Policy in the development of clear, specific, 
                and measurable counterdrug objectives for the Department 
                that support the goals and objectives of the National 
                Drug Control Strategy;
                    (B) develop specific and, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, quantifiable measures of performance 
                relating to the objectives, including annual and long-
                term measures of performance, for purposes of assessing 
                the success of the Department in meeting the objectives;
                    (C) assign responsibilities for meeting the 
                objectives to appropriate elements of the Department;
                    (D) develop an operational structure within the 
                Department that minimizes impediments to meeting the 
                objectives;
                    (E) ensure that every United States ambassador or 
                chief of mission is fully briefed on the strategy, and 
                works to achieve the objectives; and
                    (F) ensure that--
                          (i) all budgetary requests and transfers of 
                      equipment (including the financing of foreign 
                      military sales and the transfer of excess defense 
                      articles) relating to international counterdrug 
                      efforts conforms with the objectives; and
                          (ii) the recommendations of the Department 
                      regarding certification determinations made by the 
                      President on March 1 as to the counterdrug 
                      cooperation, or adequate steps on its own, of each 
                      major illicit drug producing and drug trafficking 
                      country to achieve full compliance with the goals 
                      and objectives established by the United Nations 
                      Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic 
                      Drugs and Psychotropic Substances also conform to 
                      meet such objectives.
            (3) Reports.--Not later than February 15 of each year 
        subsequent to the submission of the strategy described in 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress an update 
        of the strategy. The update shall include--
                    (A) an outline of the proposed activities with 
                respect to the strategy during the succeeding year, 
                including the manner in which such activities will meet 
                the objectives set forth in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) detailed information on how certification 
                determinations described in paragraph (2)(F) made the 
                previous year affected achievement of the objectives set 
                forth in paragraph (2) for the previous calendar year.
            (4) Limitation on delegation.--The Secretary shall designate 
        an official in the Department who reports directly to

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-814]]

        the Secretary to oversee the implementation of the strategy 
        throughout the Department.

    (b) Information on International Criminals.--
            (1) Information system.--The Secretary shall, in 
        consultation with the heads of appropriate United States law 
        enforcement agencies, including the Attorney General and the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, take appropriate actions to establish 
        an information system or improve existing information systems 
        containing comprehensive information on serious crimes committed 
        by foreign nationals. The information system shall be available 
        to United States embassies and missions abroad for use in 
        consideration of applications for visas for entry into the 
        United States.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on the actions 
        taken under paragraph (1).

    (c) Overseas Coordination of Counterdrug and Anticrime Programs, 
Policy, and Assistance.--
            (1) Strengthening coordination.--The responsibilities of 
        every diplomatic mission of the United States shall include the 
        strengthening of cooperation between and among the United States 
        and foreign governmental entities and multilateral entities with 
        respect to activities relating to international narcotics and 
        crime.
            (2) Designation of officers.--
                    (A) In general.--Consistent with existing memoranda 
                of understanding between the Department of State and 
                other departments and agencies of the United States, 
                including the Department of Justice, the chief of 
                mission of every diplomatic mission of the United States 
                shall designate an officer or officers within the 
                mission to carry out the responsibility of the mission 
                under paragraph (1), including the coordination of 
                counterdrug, law enforcement, rule of law, and 
                administration of justice programs, policy, and 
                assistance. Such officer or officers shall report to the 
                chief of mission, or the designee of the chief of 
                mission, on a regular basis regarding activities 
                undertaken in carrying out such responsibility.
                    (B) Reports.--The chief of mission of every 
                diplomatic mission of the United States shall submit to 
                the Secretary on a regular basis a report on the actions 
                undertaken by the mission to carry out such 
                responsibility.
            (3) Report to congress.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on International Relations of the House of Representatives a 
        report on the status of any proposals for action or on action 
        undertaken to improve staffing and personnel management at 
        diplomatic missions of the United States in order to carry out 
        the responsibility set forth in paragraph (1).

SEC. 2215. <<NOTE: 22 USC 303.>> ANNUAL REPORT ON OVERSEAS SURPLUS 
            PROPERTIES.

    The Foreign Service Buildings Act, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-815]]

    ``Sec. 12. <<NOTE: 22 USC 303.>> Not later than March 1 of each 
year, the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a report listing 
overseas United States surplus properties that are administered under 
this Act and that have been identified for sale.''.

SEC. 2216. HUMAN RIGHTS REPORTS.

    Section 116(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2151n(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``January 31'' and inserting ``February 
        25'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) as 
        paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) the status of child labor practices in each country, 
        including--
                    ``(A) whether such country has adopted policies to 
                protect children from exploitation in the workplace, 
                including a prohibition of forced and bonded labor and 
                policies regarding acceptable working conditions; and
                    ``(B) the extent to which each country enforces such 
                policies, including the adequacy of the resources and 
                oversight dedicated to such policies;''.

SEC. 2217. REPORTS AND POLICY CONCERNING DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY.

    Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a et seq.), as amended by this division, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 56. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2728.>> CRIMES COMMITTED BY DIPLOMATS.

    ``(a) Annual Report Concerning Diplomatic Immunity.--
            ``(1) Report to congress.--180 days after the date of 
        enactment, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall 
        prepare and submit to the Congress, a report concerning 
        diplomatic immunity entitled ``Report on Cases Involving 
        Diplomatic Immunity''.
            ``(2) Content of report.--In addition to such other 
        information as the Secretary of State may consider appropriate, 
        the report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The number of persons residing in the United 
                States who enjoy full immunity from the criminal 
                jurisdiction of the United States under laws extending 
                diplomatic privileges and immunities.
                    ``(B) Each case involving an alien described in 
                subparagraph (A) in which an appropriate authority of a 
                State, a political subdivision of a State, or the United 
                States reported to the Department of State that the 
                authority had reasonable cause to believe the alien 
                committed a serious criminal offense within the United 
                States, and any additional information provided to the 
                Secretary relating to other serious criminal offenses 
                that any such authority had reasonable cause to believe 
                the alien committed before the period covered by the 
                report. The Secretary may omit from such report any 
                matter the provision of which the Secretary reasonably 
                believes would compromise a criminal investigation or 
                prosecution or which would directly compromise law 
                enforcement or intelligence sources or methods.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-816]]

                    ``(C) Each case described in subparagraph (B) in 
                which the Secretary of State has certified that a person 
                enjoys full immunity from the criminal jurisdiction of 
                the United States under laws extending diplomatic 
                privileges and immunities.
                    ``(D) The number of United States citizens who are 
                residing in a receiving state and who enjoy full 
                immunity from the criminal jurisdiction of such state 
                under laws extending diplomatic privileges and 
                immunities.
                    ``(E) Each case involving a United States citizen 
                under subparagraph (D) in which the United States has 
                been requested by the government of a receiving state to 
                waive the immunity from criminal jurisdiction of the 
                United States citizen.
                    ``(F) Whether the Secretary has made the 
                notifications referred to in subsection (c) during the 
                period covered by the report.
            ``(3) Serious criminal offense defined.--For the purposes of 
        this section, the term `serious criminal offense' means--
                    ``(A) any felony under Federal, State, or local law;
                    ``(B) any Federal, State, or local offense 
                punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than 1 
                year;
                    ``(C) any crime of violence as defined for purposes 
                of section 16 of title 18, United States Code; or
                    ``(D)(i) driving under the influence of alcohol or 
                drugs;
                    ``(ii) reckless driving; or
                    ``(iii) driving while intoxicated.

    ``(b) United States Policy Concerning Reform of Diplomatic 
Immunity.--It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State 
should explore, in appropriate fora, whether states should enter into 
agreements and adopt legislation--
            ``(1) to provide jurisdiction in the sending state to 
        prosecute crimes committed in the receiving state by persons 
        entitled to immunity from criminal jurisdiction under laws 
        extending diplomatic privileges and immunities; and
            ``(2) to provide that where there is probable cause to 
        believe that an individual who is entitled to immunity from the 
        criminal jurisdiction of the receiving state under laws 
        extending diplomatic privileges and immunities committed a 
        serious crime, the sending state will waive such immunity or the 
        sending state will prosecute such individual.

    ``(c) Notification of Diplomatic Corps.--The Secretary should 
periodically notify each foreign mission of United States policies 
relating to criminal offenses committed by individuals with immunity 
from the criminal jurisdiction of the United States under laws extending 
diplomatic privileges and immunities.''.

SEC. 2218. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2669b.>> REAFFIRMING UNITED STATES 
            INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICY.

    (a) Procurement Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
foster and support procurement of goods and services from private, 
commercial companies.
    (b) Implementation.--In order to achieve the policy set forth in 
subsection (a), the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Program Office 
(DTS-PO) shall--
            (1) utilize full and open competition, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, in the procurement of telecommunications

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-817]]

        services, including satellite space segment, for the Department 
        of State and each other Federal entity represented at United 
        States diplomatic missions and consular posts overseas;
            (2) make every effort to ensure and promote the 
        participation in the competition for such procurement of 
        commercial private sector providers of satellite space segment 
        who have no ownership or other connection with an 
        intergovernmental satellite organization; and
            (3) implement the competitive procedures required by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) at the prime contracting level and, to 
        the maximum extent practicable, the subcontracting level.

SEC. 2219. REDUCTION OF REPORTING.

    (a) Repeals.--The following provisions of law are repealed:
            (1) Model foreign language competence posts.--The second 
        sentence of section 161(c) of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 4171 
        note).
            (2) Actions of the government of haiti.--Section 705(c) of 
        the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 
        1985 (Public Law 99-83).
             <<NOTE: 22 USC 4021 note.>> (3) Training facility for the 
        foreign service institute.--Section 123(e)(2) of the Foreign 
        Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (Public 
        Law 99-93).
            (4) Military assistance for haiti.--Section 203(c) of the 
        Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-529).
            (5) International sugar agreement, 1977.--Section 5 of the 
        Act entitled ``An Act providing for the implementation of the 
        International Sugar Agreement, 1977, and for other purposes'' 
        (Public Law 96-236; 7 U.S.C. 3605 and 3606).
            (6) Audience survey of worldnet program.--Section 209 (c) 
        and (d) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
        1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204).
            (7) Research on the near and middle east.--Section 228(b) of 
        the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 
        1993 (Public Law 102-138; 22 U.S.C. 2452 note).

    (b) Progress Toward Regional Nonproliferation.--Section 620F(c) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2376(c); relating to 
periodic reports on progress toward regional nonproliferation) is 
amended by striking ``Not later than April 1, 1993 and every six months 
thereafter,'' and inserting ``Not later than April 1 of each year,''.
    (c) Report on Participation by United States Military Personnel 
Abroad in United States Elections.--Section 101(b)(6) of the Uniformed 
and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 
1973ff(b)(6)) is amended by striking ``of voter participation'' and 
inserting ``of uniformed services voter participation, a general 
assessment of overseas nonmilitary participation,''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-818]]

       CHAPTER 2--CONSULAR AUTHORITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SEC. 2221. USE OF CERTAIN PASSPORT PROCESSING FEES FOR ENHANCED PASSPORT 
            SERVICES.

    For each of the fiscal years 1998 and 1999, of the fees collected 
for expedited passport processing and deposited to an offsetting 
collection pursuant to title V of the Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-317; 22 
U.S.C. 214 note), 30 percent shall be available only for enhancing 
passport services for United States citizens, improving the integrity 
and efficiency of the passport issuance process, improving the secure 
nature of the United States passport, investigating passport fraud, and 
deterring entry into the United States by terrorists, drug traffickers, 
or other criminals.

SEC. 2222. CONSULAR OFFICERS.

    (a) Persons Authorized To Issue Reports of Births Abroad.--Section 
33 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 
2705) is amended in paragraph (2) by adding at the end the following: 
``For purposes of this paragraph, the term `consular officer' includes 
any United States citizen employee of the Department of State who is 
designated by the Secretary of State to adjudicate nationality abroad 
pursuant to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe.''.
    (b) Provisions Applicable to Consular Officers.--Section 1689 of the 
Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C. 4191) is amended by inserting ``and to such 
other United States citizen employees of the Department of State as may 
be designated by the Secretary of State pursuant to such regulations as 
the Secretary may prescribe'' after ``such officers''.
    (c) Persons Authorized To Authenticate Foreign Documents.--
            (1) Designated united states citizens performing notarial 
        acts.--Section 1750 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (22 
        U.S.C. 4221) is further amended by inserting after the first 
        sentence: ``At any post, port, or place where there is no 
        consular officer, the Secretary of State may authorize any other 
        officer or employee of the United States Government who is a 
        United States citizen serving overseas, including any contract 
        employee of the United States Government, to perform such acts, 
        and any such contractor so authorized shall not be considered to 
        be a consular officer.''.
            (2) Definition of consular officers.--Section 3492(c) of 
        title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following: ``For purposes of this section and sections 3493 
        through 3496 of this title, the term `consular officers' 
        includes any United States citizen who is designated to perform 
        notarial functions pursuant to section 1750 of the Revised 
        Statutes, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4221).''.

    (d) Persons Authorized To Administer Oaths.--Section 115 of title 
35, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``For purposes of this section, a consular officer shall include any 
United States citizen serving overseas, authorized to perform notarial 
functions pursuant to section 1750 of the Revised Statutes, as amended 
(22 U.S.C. 4221).''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-819]]

    (e) Definition of Consular Officer.--Section 101(a)(9) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(9)) is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``or employee'' after ``officer'' the second 
        place it appears; and
            (2) inserting before the period at the end of the sentence 
        ``or, when used in title III, for the purpose of adjudicating 
        nationality''.

    (f) Training for Employees Performing Consular Functions.--Section 
704 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4024) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) Before a United States citizen employee (other than a 
diplomatic or consular officer of the United States) may be designated 
by the Secretary of State, pursuant to regulation, to perform a consular 
function abroad, the United States citizen employee shall--
            ``(A) be required to complete successfully a program of 
        training essentially equivalent to the training that a consular 
        officer who is a member of the Foreign Service would receive for 
        purposes of performing such function; and
            ``(B) be certified by an appropriate official of the 
        Department of State to be qualified by knowledge and experience 
        to perform such function.

    ``(2) As used in this subsection, the term `consular function' 
includes the issuance of visas, the performance of notarial and other 
legalization functions, the adjudication of passport applications, the 
adjudication of nationality, and the issuance of citizenship 
documentation.''.

SEC. 2223. REPEAL OF OUTDATED CONSULAR RECEIPT REQUIREMENTS.

    Sections 1726, 1727, and 1728 of the Revised Statutes of the United 
States (22 U.S.C. 4212, 4213, and 4214), as amended (relating to 
accounting for consular fees) are repealed.

SEC. 2224. ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE FEDERAL REGISTER PUBLICATION FOR 
            TRAVEL ADVISORIES.

    (a) Foreign Airports.--Section 44908(a) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).

    (b) Foreign Ports.--Section 908(a) of the International Maritime and 
Port Security Act of 1986 (46 U.S.C. App. 1804(a)) is amended by 
striking the second sentence, relating to Federal Register publication 
by the Secretary of State.

SEC. 2225. DENIAL OF VISAS TO CONFISCATORS OF <<NOTE: 8 USC 
            1182d.>> AMERICAN PROPERTY.

    (a) Denial of Visas.--Except as otherwise provided in section 401 of 
the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 
(Public Law 104-114), and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of 
State may deny the issuance of a visa to any alien who--
            (1) through the abuse of position, including a governmental 
        or political party position, converts or has converted for 
        personal gain real property that has been confiscated or 
        expropriated,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-820]]

        a claim to which is owned by a national of the United States, or 
        who is complicit in such a conversion; or
            (2) induces any of the actions or omissions described in 
        paragraph (1) by any person.

    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to--
            (1) any country established by international mandate through 
        the United Nations; or
            (2) any territory recognized by the United States Government 
        to be in dispute.

    (c) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and every 12 months thereafter, the Secretary 
of State shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 
to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
report, including--
            (1) a list of aliens who have been denied a visa under this 
        subsection; and
            (2) a list of aliens who could have been denied a visa under 
        subsection (a) but were issued a visa and an explanation as to 
        why each such visa was issued.

SEC. 2226. INADMISSIBILITY OF ANY ALIEN SUPPORTING AN INTERNATIONAL 
            CHILD ABDUCTOR.

      (a) Amendment of Immigration and Nationality Act.--Section 
212(a)(10)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1182(a)(10)(C)) is amended by striking clause (ii) and inserting the 
following:
                          ``(ii) Aliens supporting abductors and 
                      relatives of abductors.--Any alien who--
                                    ``(I) is known by the Secretary of 
                                State to have intentionally assisted an 
                                alien in the conduct described in clause 
                                (i),
                                    ``(II) is known by the Secretary of 
                                State to be intentionally providing 
                                material support or safe haven to an 
                                alien described in clause (i), or
                                    ``(III) is a spouse (other than the 
                                spouse who is the parent of the abducted 
                                child), child (other than the abducted 
                                child), parent, sibling, or agent of an 
                                alien described in clause (i), if such 
                                person has been designated by the 
                                Secretary of State at the Secretary's 
                                sole and unreviewable discretion, is 
                                inadmissible until the child described 
                                in clause (i) is surrendered to the 
                                person granted custody by the order 
                                described in that clause, and such 
                                person and child are permitted to return 
                                to the United States or such person's 
                                place of residence.
                          ``(iii) Exceptions.--Clauses (i) and (ii) 
                      shall not apply--
                                    ``(I) to a government official of 
                                the United States who is acting within 
                                the scope of his or her official duties;
                                    ``(II) to a government official of 
                                any foreign government if the official 
                                has been designated by the Secretary of 
                                State at the Secretary's sole and 
                                unreviewable discretion; or
                                    ``(III) so long as the child is 
                                located in a foreign state that is a 
                                party to the Convention on the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-821]]

                                Civil Aspects of International Child 
                                Abduction, done at The Hague on October 
                                25, 1980.''.
       <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment 
made by subsection (a) shall apply to aliens seeking admission to the 
United States on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

                    CHAPTER 3--REFUGEES AND MIGRATION

              Subchapter A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2231. MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE.

      (a) Migration and Refugee Assistance.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' for 
        authorized activities, $650,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
        $704,500,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Limitation regarding tibetan refugees in india 
                and nepal.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
                in paragraph (1), not more than $2,000,000 for the 
                fiscal year 1998 and $2,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999 
                are authorized to be available only for humanitarian 
                assistance, including food, medicine, clothing, and 
                medical and vocational training, to Tibetan refugees in 
                India and Nepal who have fled Chinese-occupied Tibet.
                    (B) Refugees resettling in israel.--Of the amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated in paragraph (1), 
                $80,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $80,000,000 for 
                the fiscal year 1999 are authorized to be available for 
                assistance for refugees resettling in Israel from other 
                countries.
                    (C) Humanitarian assistance for displaced burmese.--
                Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated in 
                paragraph (1), $1,500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
                $1,500,000 for the fiscal year 1999 for humanitarian 
                assistance are authorized to be available, including 
                food, medicine, clothing, and medical and vocational 
                training, to persons displaced as a result of civil 
                conflict in Burma, including persons still within Burma.
      (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to this 
section are authorized to remain available until expended.

                        Subchapter B--Authorities

SEC. 2241. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2601 note.>> UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING 
            THE INVOLUNTARY RETURN OF REFUGEES.
      (a) In General.--None of the funds made available by this 
subdivision shall be available to effect the involuntary return by the 
United States of any person to a country in which the person has a well-
founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, 
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, except on 
grounds recognized as precluding protection as a refugee under the 
United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees of July 28, 
1951, and the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees of January 31, 
1967, subject to the reservations contained in the United States Senate 
Resolution of Ratification.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-822]]

      (b) Migration and Refugee Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by section 2231 of this division or by section 2(c) of the 
Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)) shall 
be available to effect the involuntary return of any person to any 
country unless the Secretary of State first notifies the appropriate 
congressional committees, except that in the case of an emergency 
involving a threat to human life the Secretary of State shall notify the 
appropriate congressional committees as soon as practicable.
      (c) Involuntary Return Defined.--As used in this section, the term 
``to effect the involuntary return'' means to require, by means of 
physical force or circumstances amounting to a threat thereof, a person 
to return to a country against the person's will, regardless of whether 
the person is physically present in the United States and regardless of 
whether the United States acts directly or through an agent.

SEC. 2242. <<NOTE: 8 USC 1231 note.>> UNITED STATES POLICY WITH RESPECT 
            TO THE INVOLUNTARY RETURN OF PERSONS IN DANGER OF SUBJECTION 
            TO TORTURE.
      (a) Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United States not to 
expel, extradite, or otherwise effect the involuntary return of any 
person to a country in which there are substantial grounds for believing 
the person would be in danger of being subjected to torture, regardless 
of whether the person is physically present in the United States.
      (b) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the heads of the appropriate agencies shall 
prescribe regulations to implement the obligations of the United States 
under Article 3 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture and 
Other Forms of Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, 
subject to any reservations, understandings, declarations, and provisos 
contained in the United States Senate resolution of ratification of the 
Convention.
      (c) Exclusion of Certain Aliens.--To the maximum extent consistent 
with the obligations of the United States under the Convention, subject 
to any reservations, understandings, declarations, and provisos 
contained in the United States Senate resolution of ratification of the 
Convention, the regulations described in subsection (b) shall exclude 
from the protection of such regulations aliens described in section 
241(b)(3)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1231(b)(3)(B)).
      (d) Review and Construction.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, and except as provided in the regulations described in 
subsection (b), no court shall have jurisdiction to review the 
regulations adopted to implement this section, and nothing in this 
section shall be construed as providing any court jurisdiction to 
consider or review claims raised under the Convention or this section, 
or any other determination made with respect to the application of the 
policy set forth in subsection (a), except as part of the review of a 
final order of removal pursuant to section 242 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252).
      (e) Authority To Detain.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as limiting the authority of the Attorney General to detain 
any person under any provision of law, including, but not limited to, 
any provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
      (f) Definitions.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-823]]

            (1) Convention defined.--In this section, the term 
        ``Convention'' means the United Nations Convention Against 
        Torture and Other Forms of Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment 
        or Punishment, done at New York on December 10, 1984.
            (2) Same terms as in the convention.--Except as otherwise 
        provided, the terms used in this section have the meanings given 
        those terms in the Convention, subject to any reservations, 
        understandings, declarations, and provisos contained in the 
        United States Senate resolution of ratification of the 
        Convention.

SEC. 2243. REPROGRAMMING OF MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE FUNDS.

      Section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2706) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Foreign Affairs'' and inserting 
                ``International Relations and the Committee on 
                Appropriations''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``and the Committee on 
                Appropriations'' after ``Foreign Relations''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) The Secretary of State may waive the notification requirement 
of subsection (a), if the Secretary determines that failure to do so 
would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare. In the case of 
any waiver under this subsection, notification to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives shall be provided as soon 
as practicable, but not later than 3 days after taking the action to 
which the notification requirement was applicable, and shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.''.

SEC. 2244. ELIGIBILITY FOR REFUGEE STATUS.

    Section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-
171) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``For purposes'' and inserting 
                ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
                purposes''; and
                    (B) by striking ``fiscal year 1997'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal years 1997, 1998, and 1999''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

    ``(b) Aliens Covered.--
            ``(1) In general.-- An alien described in this subsection is 
        an alien who--
                    ``(A) is the son or daughter of a qualified 
                national;
                    ``(B) is 21 years of age or older; and
                    ``(C) was unmarried as of the date of acceptance of 
                the alien's parent for resettlement under the Orderly 
                Departure Program.
            ``(2) Qualified national.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the term `qualified national' means a national of Vietnam who--
                    ``(A)(i) was formerly interned in a reeducation camp 
                in Vietnam by the Government of the Socialist Republic 
                of Vietnam; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-824]]

                    ``(ii) is the widow or widower of an individual 
                described in clause (i); and
                    ``(B)(i) qualified for refugee processing under the 
                reeducation camp internees subprogram of the Orderly 
                Departure Program; and
                    ``(ii) on or after April 1, 1995, is or has been 
                accepted--
                          ``(I) for resettlement as a refugee; or
                          ``(II) for admission as an immigrant under the 
                      Orderly Departure Program.''.

SEC. 2245. REPORTS TO CONGRESS CONCERNING CUBAN EMIGRATION POLICIES.

    Beginning not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and every 6 months thereafter, the Secretary of State shall 
supplement the monthly report to Congress entitled ``Update on 
Monitoring of Cuban Migrant Returnees'' with additional information 
concerning the methods employed by the Government of Cuba to enforce the 
United States-Cuba agreement of September 1994 and the treatment by the 
Government of Cuba of persons who have returned to Cuba pursuant to the 
United States-Cuba agreement of May 1995.

  TITLE XXIII--ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE; DEPARTMENT OF 
                  STATE PERSONNEL; THE FOREIGN SERVICE

           CHAPTER 1--ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SEC. 2301. COORDINATOR FOR COUNTERTERRORISM.

    (a) Establishment.--Section 1 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Coordinator for Counterterrorism.--
            `` <<NOTE: President. Congress.>> (1) In general.--There is 
        within the office of the Secretary of State a Coordinator for 
        Counterterrorism (in this paragraph referred to as the 
        `Coordinator') who shall be appointed by the President, by and 
        with the advice and consent of the Senate.
            ``(2) Duties.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Coordinator shall perform 
                such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary of 
                State shall prescribe.
                    ``(B) Duties described.--The principal duty of the 
                Coordinator shall be the overall supervision (including 
                policy oversight of resources) of international 
                counterterrorism activities. The Coordinator shall be 
                the principal adviser to the Secretary of State on 
                international counterterrorism matters. The Coordinator 
                shall be the principal counterterrorism official within 
                the senior management of the Department of State and 
                shall report directly to the Secretary of State.
            ``(3) Rank and status of ambassador.--The Coordinator shall 
        have the rank and status of Ambassador at Large.''.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 161 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-
236) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2651a note.>> is amended by striking subsection (e).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-825]]

SEC. 2302. ELIMINATION OF DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR 
            BURDENSHARING.

    Section 161 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 2651a note) is amended by striking subsection 
(f).

SEC. 2303. PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.

    Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a), as amended by this division, is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Qualifications of Officer Having Primary Responsibility for 
Personnel Management.--The officer of the Department of State with 
primary responsibility for assisting the Secretary of State with respect 
to matters relating to personnel in the Department of State, or that 
officer's principal deputy, shall have substantial professional 
qualifications in the field of human resource policy and management.''.

SEC. 2304. DIPLOMATIC SECURITY.

    Section 1 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2651a), as amended by this division, is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Qualifications of Officer Having Primary Responsibility for 
Diplomatic Security.--The officer of the Department of State with 
primary responsibility for assisting the Secretary of State with respect 
to diplomatic security, or that officer's principal deputy, shall have 
substantial professional qualifications in the fields of (1) management, 
and (2) Federal law enforcement, intelligence, or security.''.

SEC. 2305. NUMBER OF SENIOR OFFICIAL POSITIONS AUTHORIZED FOR THE 
            DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

    (a) Under Secretaries.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1(b) of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(b)) is amended by 
        striking ``5'' and inserting ``6''.
            (2) Conforming amendment to title 5.--Section 5314 of title 
        5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Under 
        Secretaries of State (5)'' and inserting ``Under Secretaries of 
        State (6)''.

    (b) Assistant Secretaries.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1(c)(1) of the State Department 
        Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)(1)) is amended 
        by striking ``20'' and inserting ``24''.
            (2) Conforming amendment to title 5.--Section 5315 of title 
        5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Assistant 
        Secretaries of State (20)'' and inserting ``Assistant 
        Secretaries of State (24)''.

    (c) Deputy Assistant Secretaries.--Section 1 of the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a), as amended by this 
division, is further amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h) as 
        subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-826]]

SEC. 2306. <<NOTE: President.>> NOMINATION OF UNDER SECRETARIES AND 
            ASSISTANT SECRETARIES OF STATE.

    (a) Under Secretaries of State.--Section 1(b) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)), as 
amended by this division, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Nomination of Under Secretaries.--Whenever the 
        President submits to the Senate a nomination of an individual 
        for appointment to a position in the Department of State that is 
        described in paragraph (1), the President shall designate the 
        particular Under Secretary position in the Department of State 
        that the individual shall have.''.

    (b) Assistant Secretaries of State.--Section 1(c) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)), as 
amended by this division, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Nomination of Assistant Secretaries.--Whenever the 
        President submits to the Senate a nomination of an individual 
        for appointment to a position in the Department of State that is 
        described in paragraph (1), the President shall designate the 
        regional or functional bureau or bureaus of the Department of 
        State with respect to which the individual shall have 
        responsibility.''.

  CHAPTER 2--PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE; THE FOREIGN SERVICE

SEC. 2311. FOREIGN SERVICE REFORM.

    (a) Performance Pay.--Section 405 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 3965) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Members'' and inserting 
        ``Subject to subsection (e), members''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
State may provide for recognition of the meritorious or distinguished 
service of any member of the Foreign Service described in subsection (a) 
(including any member of the Senior Foreign Service) by means other than 
an award of performance pay in lieu of making such an award under this 
section.''.
    (b) Expedited Separation Out.--
             <<NOTE: Procedures.>> (1) Separation of lowest ranked 
        foreign service members.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall develop 
        and implement procedures to identify, and recommend for 
        separation, any member of the Foreign Service ranked by 
        promotion boards of the Department of State in the bottom 5 
        percent of his or her class for 2 or more of the 5 years 
        preceding the date of enactment of this Act (in this subsection 
        referred to as the ``years of lowest ranking'') if the rating 
        official for such member was not the same individual for any two 
        of the years of lowest ranking.
            (2) Special internal reviews.--In any case where the member 
        was evaluated by the same rating official in any 2 of the years 
        of lowest ranking, an internal review of the member's file shall 
        be conducted to determine whether the member should be 
        considered for action leading to separation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-827]]

            (3) Procedures.--The Secretary of State shall develop 
        procedures for the internal reviews required under paragraph 
        (2).

SEC. 2312. RETIREMENT BENEFITS FOR INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION.

    (a) Benefits.--Section 609 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4009) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting ``or any other 
        applicable provision of chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
        Code,'' after ``section 811'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or section 855, as 
        appropriate'' after ``section 806''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``(2)'' and inserting ``(2)(A) for 
                those participants in the Foreign Service Retirement and 
                Disability System,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end ``; 
                and (B) for those participants in the Foreign Service 
                Pension System, benefits as provided in section 851''; 
                and
            (4) in subsection (b) in the matter following paragraph (2), 
        by inserting ``(for participants in the Foreign Service 
        Retirement and Disability System) or age 62 (for participants in 
        the Foreign Service Pension System)'' after ``age 60''.

    (b) Entitlement to Annuity.--Section 855(b) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4071d(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``611,'' after ``608,'';
                    (B) by inserting ``or for participants in the 
                Foreign Service Pension System,'' after ``for 
                participants in the Foreign Service Retirement and 
                Disability System''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Service shall'' and inserting 
                ``Service, shall''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or 610'' and inserting 
        ``610, or 611''.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 4009 et seq.>> (c) Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
             <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (2) Exceptions.--The amendments 
        made by paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) and paragraphs 
        (1)(A) and (2) of subsection (b) shall apply with respect to any 
        actions taken under section 611 of the Foreign Service Act of 
        1980 on or after January 1, 1996.

SEC. 2313. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY TO SEPARATE CONVICTED FELONS FROM THE 
            FOREIGN SERVICE.

    Section 610(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4010(a)(2)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``A member'' 
and inserting ``Except in the case of an individual who has been 
convicted of a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment of more than 1 
year may be imposed, a member''.

SEC. 2314. CAREER COUNSELING.

    (a) In General.--Section 706(a) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4026(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``Career counseling and related services provided pursuant to 
this Act shall not be construed to permit an assignment that consists 
primarily of paid time to conduct

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-828]]

a job search and without other substantive duties for more than one 
month.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 22 USC 4026 note.>> amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall be effective 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2315. LIMITATIONS ON MANAGEMENT ASSIGNMENTS.

    Section 1017(e)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4117(e)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(ii) and paragraph 
        (1)(B), the term `management official' does not include--
                    ``(A) any chief of mission;
                    ``(B) any principal officer or deputy principal 
                officer;
                    ``(C) any administrative or personnel officer 
                abroad; or
                    ``(D) any individual described in section 1002(12) 
                (B), (C), or (D) who is not involved in the 
                administration of this chapter or in the formulation of 
                the personnel policies and programs of the 
                Department.''.

SEC. 2316. AVAILABILITY PAY FOR CERTAIN CRIMINAL INVESTIGATORS WITHIN 
            THE DIPLOMATIC SECURITY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5545a of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k)(1) For purposes of this section, the term `criminal 
investigator' includes a special agent occupying a position under title 
II of Public Law 99-399 if such special agent--
            ``(A) meets the definition of such term under paragraph (2) 
        of subsection (a) (applied disregarding the parenthetical matter 
        before subparagraph (A) thereof); and
            ``(B) such special agent satisfies the requirements of 
        subsection (d) without taking into account any hours described 
        in paragraph (2)(B) thereof.

    ``(2) In applying subsection (h) with respect to a special agent 
under this subsection--
            ``(A) any reference in such subsection to `basic pay' shall 
        be considered to include amounts designated as `salary';
            ``(B) paragraph (2)(A) of such subsection shall be 
        considered to include (in addition to the provisions of law 
        specified therein) sections 609(b)(1), 805, 806, and 856 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980; and
            ``(C) paragraph (2)(B) of such subsection shall be applied 
        by substituting for `Office of Personnel Management' the 
        following: `Office of Personnel Management or the Secretary of 
        State (to the extent that matters exclusively within the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary are concerned)'.''.

    (b) Implementation.--Not later than the date on which the amendments 
made by this section take effect, each special agent of the Diplomatic 
Security Service who satisfies the requirements of subsection (k)(1) of 
section 5545a of title 5, United States Code, as amended by this 
section, and the appropriate supervisory officer, to be designated by 
the Secretary of State, shall make an initial certification to the 
Secretary of State that the special agent is expected to meet the 
requirements of subsection (d) of such section 5545a. The Secretary of 
State may prescribe procedures necessary to administer this subsection.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--(1) Paragraph (2) of 
section 5545a(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-829]]

(in the matter before subparagraph (A)) by striking ``Public Law 99-
399)'' and inserting ``Public Law 99-399, subject to subsection (k))''.
    (2) Section 5542(e) of such title is amended by striking ``title 18, 
United States Code,'' and inserting ``title 18 or section 37(a)(3) of 
the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956,''.
     <<NOTE: 5 USC 5542 note.>> (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first 
applicable pay period--
            (1) which begins on or after the 90th day following the date 
        of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) on which date all regulations necessary to carry out 
        such amendments are (in the judgment of the Director of the 
        Office of Personnel Management and the Secretary of State) in 
        effect.

SEC. 2317. NONOVERTIME DIFFERENTIAL PAY.

    Title 5 of the United States Code is amended--
            (1) in section 5544(a), by inserting after the fourth 
        sentence the following new sentence: ``For employees serving 
        outside the United States in areas where Sunday is a routine 
        workday and another day of the week is officially recognized as 
        the day of rest and worship, the Secretary of State may 
        designate the officially recognized day of rest and worship as 
        the day with respect to which the preceding sentence shall apply 
        instead of Sunday.''; and
            (2) at the end of section 5546(a), by adding the following 
        new sentence: ``For employees serving outside the United States 
        in areas where Sunday is a routine workday and another day of 
        the week is officially recognized as the day of rest and 
        worship, the Secretary of State may designate the officially 
        recognized day of rest and worship as the day with respect to 
        which the preceding sentence shall apply instead of Sunday.''.

SEC. 2318. <<NOTE: 22 USC 3922a note.>> REPORT CONCERNING MINORITIES AND 
            THE FOREIGN SERVICE.

    The Secretary of State shall during each of calendar years 1998 and 
1999 submit a report to the Congress concerning minorities and the 
Foreign Service officer corps. In addition to such other information as 
is relevant to this issue, the report shall include the following data 
for the last preceding examination and promotion cycles for which such 
information is available (reported in terms of real numbers and 
percentages and not as ratios):
            (1) The numbers and percentages of all minorities taking the 
        written Foreign Service examination.
            (2) The numbers and percentages of all minorities 
        successfully completing and passing the written Foreign Service 
        examination.
            (3) The numbers and percentages of all minorities 
        successfully completing and passing the oral Foreign Service 
        examination.
            (4) The numbers and percentages of all minorities entering 
        the junior officers class of the Foreign Service.
            (5) The numbers and percentages of all minority Foreign 
        Service officers at each grade.
            (6) The numbers of and percentages of minorities promoted at 
        each grade of the Foreign Service officer corps.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-830]]

   TITLE XXIV--UNITED STATES INFORMATIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, AND CULTURAL 
                                PROGRAMS

               CHAPTER 1--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 2401. INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES AND EDUCATIONAL AND 
            CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS.

    The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
international information activities and educational and cultural 
exchange programs under the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act 
of 1961, Reorganization Plan Number 2 of 1977, the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba 
Act, the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act, the Board for 
International Broadcasting Act, the North/South Center Act of 1991, and 
the National Endowment for Democracy Act, and to carry out other 
authorities in law consistent with such purposes:
            (1) International information programs.--For ``International 
        Information Programs'', $427,097,000 for the fiscal year 1998 
        and $455,246,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (2) Technology fund.--For the ``Technology Fund'' for the 
        United States Information Agency, $5,050,000 for the fiscal year 
        1998 and $5,050,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (3) Educational and cultural exchange programs.--
                    (A) Fulbright academic exchange programs.--
                          (i) Fulbright academic exchange programs.--
                      There are authorized to be appropriated for the 
                      ``Fulbright Academic Exchange Programs'' (other 
                      than programs described in subparagraph (B)), 
                      $99,236,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
                      $100,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
                          (ii) Vietnam fulbright academic exchange 
                      programs.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
                      appropriated under clause (i), $5,000,000 for the 
                      fiscal year 1998 and $5,000,000 for the fiscal 
                      year 1999 are authorized to be available for the 
                      Vietnam scholarship program established by section 
                      229 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
                      Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 102-138).
                    (B) Other educational and cultural exchange 
                programs.--
                          (i) In general.--There are authorized to be 
                      appropriated for other educational and cultural 
                      exchange programs authorized by law, $100,764,000 
                      for the fiscal year 1998 and $102,500,000 for the 
                      fiscal year 1999.
                          (ii) South pacific exchanges.--Of the amounts 
                      authorized to be appropriated under clause (i), 
                      $500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $500,000 for 
                      the fiscal year 1999 are authorized to be 
                      available for ``South Pacific Exchanges''.
                          (iii) East timorese scholarships.--Of the 
                      amounts authorized to be appropriated under clause 
                      (i), $500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
                      $500,000 for the fiscal year 1999 are authorized 
                      to be available for ``East Timorese 
                      Scholarships''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-831]]

                          (iv) Tibetan exchanges.--Of the amounts 
                      authorized to be appropriated under clause (i), 
                      $500,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $500,000 for 
                      the fiscal year 1999 are authorized to be 
                      available for ``Educational and Cultural Exchanges 
                      with Tibet'' under section 236 of the Foreign 
                      Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 
                      1995 (Public Law 103-236).
            (4) International broadcasting activities.--
                    (A) Authorization of appropriations.--For 
                ``International Broadcasting Activities'', $340,315,000 
                for the fiscal year 1998, and $340,365,000 for the 
                fiscal year 1999.
                    (B) Allocation.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated under subparagraph (A), the Director of the 
                United States Information Agency and the Broadcasting 
                Board of Governors shall seek to ensure that the amounts 
                made available for broadcasting to nations whose people 
                do not fully enjoy freedom of expression do not decline 
                in proportion to the amounts made available for 
                broadcasting to other nations.
            (5) Radio construction.--For ``Radio Construction'', 
        $40,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998, and $13,245,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.
            (6) Radio free asia.--For ``Radio Free Asia'', $24,100,000 
        for the fiscal year 1998 and $22,000,000 for the fiscal year 
        1999, and an additional $8,000,000 in fiscal year 1998 for one-
        time capital costs.
            (7) Broadcasting to cuba.--For ``Broadcasting to Cuba'', 
        $22,095,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and $22,095,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.
            (8) Center for cultural and technical interchange between 
        east and west.--For the ``Center for Cultural and Technical 
        Interchange between East and West'', not more than $12,000,000 
        for the fiscal year 1998 and not more than $12,500,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.
            (9) National endowment for democracy.--For the ``National 
        Endowment for Democracy'', $30,000,000 for the fiscal year 1998 
        and $31,000,000 for the fiscal year 1999.
            (10) Center for cultural and technical interchange between 
        north and south.--For ``Center for Cultural and Technical 
        Interchange between North and South'' not more than $1,500,000 
        for the fiscal year 1998 and not more than $1,750,000 for the 
        fiscal year 1999.

                  CHAPTER 2--AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2411. <<NOTE: 22 USC 4416.>> RETENTION OF INTEREST.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with the approval of the 
National Endowment for Democracy, grant funds made available by the 
National Endowment for Democracy may be deposited in interest-bearing 
accounts pending disbursement, and any interest which accrues may be 
retained by the grantee without returning such interest to the Treasury 
of the United States and interest earned may be obligated and expended 
for the purposes for which the grant was made without further 
appropriation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-832]]

SEC. 2412. USE OF SELECTED PROGRAM FEES.

    Section 810 of the United States Information and Educational 
  Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) is amended to read as follows:

    ``Sec. 810. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 
31, United States Code, or any other law or limitation of authority, 
fees and receipts described in subsection (b) are authorized to be 
credited each fiscal year for authorized purposes to the appropriate 
appropriations of the United States Information Agency to such extent as 
may be provided in advance in appropriations acts.

    ``(b) Fees and Receipts Described.--The fees and receipts described 
in this subsection are fees and payments received by or for the use of 
the United States Information Agency from or in connection with--
            ``(1) English-teaching and library services,
            ``(2) educational advising and counseling,
            ``(3) Exchange Visitor Program Services,
            ``(4) advertising and business ventures of the Voice of 
        America and the International Broadcasting Bureau,
            ``(5) cooperating international organizations, and
            ``(6) Agency-produced publications,
            ``(7) an amount not to exceed $100,000 of the payments from 
        motion picture and television programs produced or conducted by 
        or on behalf of the Agency under the authority of this Act or 
        the Mutual Education and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961.''.

SEC. 2413. MUSKIE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Guidelines.--Section 227(c)(5) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452 note) is 
amended by inserting ``journalism and communications, education 
administration, public policy, library and information science,'' after 
``business administration,'' each of the two places it appears.
    (b) Redesignation of Soviet Union.--Section 227 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452 
note) is amended--
            (1) in subsections (a), (b), and (c)(5), by striking 
        ``Soviet Union'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``independent states of the former Soviet Union'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(11), by striking ``Soviet republics'' 
        and inserting ``independent states of the former Soviet Union''; 
        and
            (3) in the section heading, by inserting ``INDEPENDENT 
        STATES OF THE FORMER'' after ``FROM THE''.

SEC. 2414. WORKING GROUP ON UNITED 
            STATES <<NOTE: Establishment.>> GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED 
            INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES AND TRAINING.

    Section 112 of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2460) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(g) Working Group on United States Government Sponsored 
International Exchanges and Training.--(1) In order to carry out the 
purposes of subsection (f) and to improve the coordination, efficiency, 
and effectiveness of United States Government-

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-833]]

sponsored international exchanges and training, there is established 
within the United States Information Agency a senior-level interagency 
working group to be known as the Working Group on United States 
Government-Sponsored International Exchanges and Training (in this 
section referred to as the `Working Group').
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `Government-
sponsored international exchanges and training' means the movement of 
people between countries to promote the sharing of ideas, to develop 
skills, and to foster mutual understanding and cooperation, financed 
wholly or in part, directly or indirectly, with United States Government 
funds.
    ``(3) The Working Group shall be composed as follows:
            ``(A) The Associate Director for Educational and Cultural 
        Affairs of the United States Information Agency, who shall act 
        as Chair.
            ``(B) A senior representative of the Department of State, 
        who shall be designated by the Secretary of State.
            ``(C) A senior representative of the Department of Defense, 
        who shall be designated by the Secretary of Defense.
            ``(D) A senior representative of the Department of 
        Education, who shall be designated by the Secretary of 
        Education.
            ``(E) A senior representative of the Department of Justice, 
        who shall be designated by the Attorney General.
            ``(F) A senior representative of the Agency for 
        International Development, who shall be designated by the 
        Administrator of the Agency.
            ``(G) Senior representatives of such other departments and 
        agencies as the Chair determines to be appropriate.

    ``(4) Representatives of the National Security Adviser and the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget may participate in the 
Working Group at the discretion of the Adviser and the Director, 
respectively.
    ``(5) The Working Group shall be supported by an interagency staff 
office established in the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of 
the United States Information Agency.
    ``(6) The Working Group shall have the following purposes and 
responsibilities:
            ``(A) To collect, analyze, and report data provided by all 
        United States Government departments and agencies conducting 
        international exchanges and training programs.
            ``(B) To promote greater understanding and cooperation among 
        concerned United States Government departments and agencies of 
        common issues and challenges in conducting international 
        exchanges and training programs, including through the 
        establishment of a clearinghouse for information on 
        international exchange and training activities in the 
        governmental and nongovernmental sectors.
            ``(C) In order to achieve the most efficient and cost-
        effective use of Federal resources, to identify administrative 
        and programmatic duplication and overlap of activities by the 
        various United States Government departments and agencies 
        involved in Government-sponsored international exchange and 
        training programs, to identify how each Government-sponsored 
        international exchange and training program promotes United 
        States foreign policy, and to report thereon.
            ``(D)(i) Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
        Years 1998

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-834]]

        and 1999, the Working Group shall develop a coordinated and 
        cost-effective strategy for all United States Government-
        sponsored international exchange and training programs, 
        including an action plan with the objective of achieving a 
        minimum of 10 percent cost savings through greater efficiency, 
        the consolidation of programs, or the elimination of 
        duplication, or any combination thereof.
            ``(ii) Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of <<NOTE: Reports.>> enactment of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999, the Working Group 
        shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees setting forth the strategy and action plan required 
        by clause (i).
            ``(iii) Each year thereafter the Working Group shall assess 
        the strategy and plan required by clause (i).
            ``(E) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than 2 years after the 
        date of the enactment of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
        Act, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999, to develop recommendations on 
        common performance measures for all United States Government-
        sponsored international exchange and training programs, and to 
        issue a report.
            ``(F) To conduct a survey of private sector international 
        exchange activities and develop strategies for expanding public 
        and private partnerships in, and leveraging private sector 
        support for, United States Government-sponsored international 
        exchange and training activities.
            ``(G) Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
        enactment of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
        Years 1998 and 1999, to report on the feasibility and 
        advisability of transferring funds and program management for 
        the ATLAS or the Mandela Fellows programs, or both, in South 
        Africa from the Agency for International Development to the 
        United States Information Agency. <<NOTE: Reports.>> The report 
        shall include an assessment of the capabilities of the South 
        African Fulbright Commission to manage such programs and the 
        cost effects of consolidating such programs under one entity.

    ``(7) All reports prepared by the Working Group shall be submitted 
to the President, through the Director of the United States Information 
Agency.
    ``(8) The Working Group shall meet at least on a quarterly basis.
    ``(9) All decisions of the Working Group shall be by majority vote 
of the members present and voting.
    ``(10) The members of the Working Group shall serve without 
additional compensation for their service on the Working Group. Any 
expenses incurred by a member of the Working Group in connection with 
service on the Working Group shall be compensated by that member's 
department or agency.
    ``(11) With respect to any report issued under paragraph (6), a 
member may submit dissenting views to be submitted as part of the report 
of the Working Group.''.

SEC. 2415. EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES AND SCHOLARSHIPS FOR 
            TIBETANS AND BURMESE.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2452 note.>> (a) In General.--Section 103(b)(1) of 
the Human Rights, Refugee, and Other Foreign Relations Provisions Act of 
1996 (Public Law 104-319; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``for fiscal year 1997'' and inserting ``for 
        the fiscal year 1999''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-835]]

            (2) by inserting after ``who are outside Tibet'' the 
        following: ``(if practicable, including individuals active in 
        the preservation of Tibet's unique culture, religion, and 
        language)''.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2452 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 1998.

SEC. 2416. SURROGATE BROADCASTING STUDY.

    Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, acting through the International 
Broadcasting Bureau, should conduct and complete a study of the 
appropriateness, feasibility, and projected costs of providing surrogate 
broadcasting service to Africa and transmit the results of the study to 
the appropriate congressional committees.

SEC. 2417. RADIO BROADCASTING TO IRAN IN THE FARSI LANGUAGE.

    (a) Radio Free Iran.--Not more than $2,000,000 of the funds made 
available under section 2401(a)(4) of this division for each of the 
fiscal years 1998 and 1999 for grants to RFE/RL, Incorporated, shall be 
available only for surrogate radio broadcasting by RFE/RL, Incorporated, 
to the Iranian people in the Farsi language, such broadcasts to be 
designated as ``Radio Free Iran''.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Broadcasting Board of Governors of the United 
States Information Agency shall submit a detailed report to Congress 
describing the costs, implementation, and plans for creation of the 
surrogate broadcasting service described in subsection (a).
    (c) Availability of Funds.--None of the funds made available under 
subsection (a) may be made available until submission of the report 
required under subsection (b).

SEC. 2418. <<NOTE: 22 USC 1474 note.>> AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER SUMMER 
            TRAVEL AND WORK PROGRAMS.

    The Director of the United States Information Agency is authorized 
to administer summer travel and work programs without regard to 
preplacement requirements.

SEC. 2419. PERMANENT ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES REGARDING 
            APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 701(f) of the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1476(f)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (4).

SEC. 2420. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6202 note.>> VOICE OF AMERICA BROADCASTS.

    (a) In General.--The Voice of America shall devote programming each 
day to broadcasting information on the individual States of the United 
States. The broadcasts shall include--
            (1) information on the products, tourism, and cultural and 
        educational facilities of each State;
            (2) information on the potential for trade with each State; 
        and
            (3) discussions with State officials with respect to the 
        matters described in paragraphs (1) and (2).

    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Broadcasting Board of Governors of the United States 
Information Agency shall submit a report to Congress detailing the 
actions that have been taken to carry out subsection (a).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-836]]

    (c) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means any of 
the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, or 
any commonwealth or territory of the United States.

    TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OTHER THAN UNITED NATIONS

SEC. 2501. INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES AND CONTINGENCIES.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for ``International 
Conferences and Contingencies'', $6,537,000 for the fiscal year 1998 and 
$16,223,000 for the fiscal year 1999 for the Department of State to 
carry out the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities in 
the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States with respect to 
international conferences and contingencies and to carry out other 
authorities in law consistent with such purposes.

SEC. 2502. <<NOTE: 22 USC 262-1.>> RESTRICTION RELATING TO UNITED STATES 
            ACCESSION TO ANY NEW INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL.

    (a) Prohibition.--The United States shall not become a party to any 
new international criminal tribunal, nor give legal effect to the 
jurisdiction of such a tribunal over any matter described in subsection 
(b), except pursuant to--
            (1) a treaty made under Article II, section 2, clause 2 of 
        the Constitution of the United States on or after the date of 
        enactment of this Act; or
            (2) any statute enacted by Congress on or after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

    (b) Jurisdiction Described.--The jurisdiction described in this 
section is jurisdiction over--
            (1) persons found, property located, or acts or omissions 
        committed, within the territory of the United States; or
            (2) nationals of the United States, wherever found.

    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section precludes 
sharing information, expertise, or other forms of assistance with such 
tribunal.
    (d) Definition.--The term ``new international criminal tribunal'' 
means any permanent international criminal tribunal established on or 
after the date of enactment of this Act and does not include--
            (1) the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of 
        Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International 
        Humanitarian Law in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia, as 
        established by United Nations Security Council Resolution 827 of 
        May 25, 1993; or
            (2) the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of 
        Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of 
        International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of 
        Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other 
        Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighboring 
        States, as established by United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 955 of November 8, 1994.

SEC. 2503. <<NOTE: 22 USC 276 note.>> UNITED STATES MEMBERSHIP IN THE 
            BUREAU OF THE INTERPARLIAMENTARY UNION.

     <<NOTE: Certification. Effective date.>> (a) Interparliamentary 
Union Limitation.--Unless the Secretary of State certifies to Congress 
that the United States will be assessed not more than $500,000 for its 
annual contribution to the Bureau of the Interparliamentary Union during 
fiscal year

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-837]]

1999, then effective October 1, 1999, the authority for further 
participation by the United States in the Bureau shall terminate in 
accordance with subsection (d).

    (b) Elimination of Authority To Pay Expenses of the American 
Group.--Section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
participation by the United States in the Interparliamentary Union'', 
approved June 28, 1935 (22 U.S.C. 276) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``fiscal year'' and all that follows 
                through ``(1) for'' and inserting ``fiscal year for'';
                    (B) by striking ``; and''; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) by striking the second sentence.

    (c) Elimination of Permanent Appropriation.--Section 303 of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988 (as contained in section 101(a) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 1988 (Public Law 100-202; 22 U.S.C. 276 
note)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$440,000'' and inserting ``$350,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``paragraph (2) of the first section of 
        Public Law 74-170,''.

    (d) Conditional Termination of Authority.--Unless Congress receives 
the certification described in subsection (a) before October 1, 1999, 
effective on that date the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
participation by the United States in the Interparliamentary Union'', 
approved June 28, 1935 (22 U.S.C. 276-276a-4) is repealed.
     <<NOTE: 22 USC 276 note.>> (e) Transfer of Funds to the Treasury.--
Unobligated balances of appropriations made under section 303 of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act 1988 (as contained in section 101(a) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 1988; Public Law 100-202) that are 
available as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be transferred on such date to the general fund of the Treasury of the 
United States.

SEC. 2504. SERVICE IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3582(b) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking all after the first sentence and inserting the 
following: ``On reemployment, an employee entitled to the benefits of 
subsection (a) is entitled to the rate of basic pay to which the 
employee would have been entitled had the employee remained in the civil 
service. On reemployment, the agency shall restore the sick leave 
account of the employee, by credit or charge, to its status at the time 
of transfer. The period of separation caused by the employment of the 
employee with the international organization and the period necessary to 
effect reemployment are deemed creditable service for all appropriate 
civil service employment purposes. This subsection does not apply to a 
congressional employee.''.
     <<NOTE: 5 USC 3582 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to transfers that take effect 
on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2505. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5707 note.>> REPORTS REGARDING FOREIGN TRAVEL.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (e), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this division for fiscal year 
1999 may be used to pay for the expenses of foreign travel by an officer 
or employee of an Executive branch agency

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-838]]

to attend an international conference, or for the routine services that 
a United States diplomatic mission or consular post provides in support 
of foreign travel by such an officer or employee to attend an 
international conference, unless that officer or employee has submitted 
a preliminary report with respect to that foreign travel in accordance 
with subsection (b), and has not previously failed to submit a final 
report with respect to foreign travel to attend an international 
conference required by subsection (c).
    (b) Preliminary Reports.--A preliminary report referred to in 
subsection (a) is a report by an officer or employee of an Executive 
branch agency with respect to proposed foreign travel to attend an 
international conference, submitted to the Director prior to 
commencement of the travel, setting forth--
            (1) the name and employing agency of the officer or 
        employee;
            (2) the name of the official who authorized the travel; and
            (3) the purpose and duration of the travel.

    (c) Final Reports.--A final report referred to in subsection (a) is 
a report by an officer or employee of an Executive branch agency with 
respect to foreign travel to attend an international conference, 
submitted to the Director not later than 30 days after the conclusion of 
the travel--
            (1) setting forth the actual duration and cost of the 
        travel; and
            (2) updating any other information included in the 
        preliminary report.

    (d) Report to Congress.--The Director shall submit a report not 
later than April 1, 1999, to the Committees on Foreign Relations and 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on International 
Relations and Appropriations of the House of Representatives, setting 
forth with respect to each international conference for which reports 
described in subsection (c) were required to be submitted to the 
Director during the preceding six months--
            (1) the names and employing agencies of all officers and 
        employees of Executive branch agencies who attended the 
        international conference;
            (2) the names of all officials who authorized travel to the 
        international conference, and the total number of officers and 
        employees who were authorized to travel to the conference by 
        each such official; and
            (3) the total cost of travel by officers and employees of 
        Executive branch agencies to the international conference.

    (e) Exceptions.--This section shall not apply to travel by--
            (1) the President or the Vice President;
            (2) any officer or employee who is carrying out an 
        intelligence or intelligence-related activity, who is performing 
        a protective function, or who is engaged in a sensitive 
        diplomatic mission; or
            (3) any officer or employee who travels prior to January 1, 
        1999.

    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of International Conferences of the Department of 
        State.
            (2) Executive branch agency.--The terms ``Executive branch 
        agency'' and ``Executive branch agencies'' mean--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-839]]

                    (A) an entity or entities, other than the General 
                Accounting Office, defined in section 105 of title 5, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) the Executive Office of the President (except as 
                provided in subsection (e)).
            (3) International conference.--The term ``international 
        conference'' means any meeting held under the auspices of an 
        international organization or foreign government, at which 
        representatives of more than two foreign governments are 
        expected to be in attendance, and to which United States 
        Executive branch agencies will send a total of ten or more 
        representatives.

    (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report describing--
            (1) the total Federal expenditure of all official 
        international travel in each Executive branch agency during the 
        previous fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individuals in each agency who 
        engaged in such travel.

      TITLE XXVI--UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of 
the Arms Control and Disarmament Act $41,500,000 for the fiscal year 
1999.

SEC. 2602. STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.

    Section 303 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 
2573), as redesignated by section 2223 of this division, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing contained in this chapter 
shall be construed to authorize any policy or action by any Government 
agency which would interfere with, restrict, or prohibit the 
acquisition, possession, or use of firearms by an individual for the 
lawful purpose of personal defense, sport, recreation, education, or 
training.''.

TITLE <<NOTE: European Security Act of 1998. 22 USC 1928 note.>> XXVII--
EUROPEAN SECURITY ACT OF 1998

SEC. 2701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``European Security Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2702. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    (a) Policy With Respect to NATO Enlargement.--Congress urges the 
President to outline a clear and complete strategic rationale for the 
enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and 
declares that--
            (1) Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic should not be 
        the last emerging democracies in Central and Eastern Europe 
        invited to join NATO;
            (2) the United States should ensure that NATO continues a 
        process whereby all other emerging democracies in Central and 
        Eastern Europe that wish to join NATO will be considered

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-840]]

        for membership in NATO as soon as they meet the criteria for 
        such membership;
            (3) the United States should ensure that no limitations are 
        placed on the numbers of NATO troops or types of equipment, 
        including tactical nuclear weapons, to be deployed on the 
        territory of new member states;
            (4) the United States should reject all efforts to condition 
        NATO decisions on review or approval by the United Nations 
        Security Council;
            (5) the United States should clearly delineate those NATO 
        deliberations, including but not limited to discussions on arms 
        control, further Alliance enlargement, procurement matters, and 
        strategic doctrine, that are not subject to review or discussion 
        in the NATO-Russia Permanent Joint Council;
            (6) the United States should work to ensure that countries 
        invited to join the Alliance are provided an immediate seat in 
        NATO discussions; and
            (7) the United States already pays more than a proportionate 
        share of the costs of the common defense of Europe and should 
        obtain, in advance, agreement on an equitable distribution of 
        the cost of NATO enlargement to ensure that the United States 
        does not continue to bear a disproportionate burden.

    (b) Policy With Respect to Negotiations With Russia.--
            (1) Implementation.--NATO enlargement should be carried out 
        in such a manner as to underscore the Alliance's defensive 
        nature and demonstrate to Russia that NATO enlargement will 
        enhance the security of all countries in Europe, including 
        Russia. Accordingly, the United States and its NATO allies 
        should make this intention clear in negotiations with Russia, 
        including negotiations regarding adaptation of the Conventional 
        Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) Treaty of November 19, 1990.
            (2) Limitations on commitments to russia.--In seeking to 
        demonstrate to Russia NATO's defensive and security-enhancing 
        intentions, it is essential that neither fundamental United 
        States security interests in Europe nor the effectiveness and 
        flexibility of NATO as a defensive alliance be jeopardized. In 
        particular, no commitments should be made to Russia that would 
        have the effect of--
                    (A) extending rights or imposing responsibilities on 
                new NATO members different from those applicable to 
                current NATO members, including rights or 
                responsibilities with respect to the deployment of 
                nuclear weapons and the stationing of troops and 
                equipment from other NATO members;
                    (B) limiting the ability of NATO to defend the 
                territory of new NATO members by, for example, 
                restricting the construction of defense infrastructure 
                or limiting the ability of NATO to deploy necessary 
                reinforcements;
                    (C) providing any international organization, or any 
                country that is not a member of NATO, with authority to 
                delay, veto, or otherwise impede deliberations and 
                decisions of the North Atlantic Council or the 
                implementation of such decisions, including 
                deliberations and decisions with respect to the 
                deployment of NATO forces or the admission of additional 
                members to NATO;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-841]]

                    (D) impeding the development of enhanced relations 
                between NATO and other European countries that do not 
                belong to the Alliance;
                    (E) establishing a nuclear weapons-free zone in 
                Central or Eastern Europe;
                    (F) requiring NATO to subsidize Russian arms sales, 
                service, or support to the militaries of those former 
                Warsaw Pact countries invited to join the Alliance; or
                    (G) legitimizing Russian efforts to link concessions 
                in arms control negotiations to NATO enlargement.
            (3) Commitments from russia.--In order to enhance security 
        and stability in Europe, the United States should seek 
        commitments from Russia--
                    (A) to demarcate and respect all its borders with 
                neighboring states;
                    (B) to achieve the immediate and complete withdrawal 
                of any armed forces and military equipment under the 
                control of Russia that are deployed on the territories 
                of the independent states of the former Soviet Union 
                without the full and complete agreement of those states;
                    (C) to station its armed forces on the territory of 
                other states only with the full and complete agreement 
                of that state and in strict accordance with 
                international law; and
                    (D) to take steps to reduce further its nuclear and 
                conventional forces in Kaliningrad.
            (4) Consultations.--As negotiations on adaptation of the 
        Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe proceed, the 
        United States should engage in close and continuous 
        consultations not only with its NATO allies, but also with the 
        emerging democracies of Central and Eastern Europe, Ukraine, and 
        the South Caucasus.

    (c) Policy With Respect to Ballistic Missile Defense Cooperation.--
            (1) In general.--As the United States proceeds with efforts 
        to develop defenses against ballistic missile attack, it should 
        seek to foster a climate of cooperation with Russia on matters 
        related to missile defense. In particular, the United States and 
        its NATO allies should seek to cooperate with Russia in such 
        areas as early warning.
            (2) Discussions with nato allies.--The United States should 
        initiate discussions with its NATO allies for the purpose of 
        examining the feasibility of deploying a ballistic missile 
        defense capable of protecting NATO's southern and eastern flanks 
        from a limited ballistic missile attack.
            (3) Constitutional prerogatives.--Even as the Congress seeks 
        to promote ballistic missile defense cooperation with Russia, it 
        must insist on its constitutional prerogatives regarding 
        consideration of arms control agreements with Russia that bear 
        on ballistic missile defense.

SEC. 2703. AUTHORITIES RELATING TO NATO ENLARGEMENT.

    (a) Policy of Section.--This section is enacted in order to 
implement the policy set forth in section 2702(a).
    (b) Designation of Additional Countries Eligible for NATO 
Enlargement Assistance.--
            (1) Designation of additional countries.--Romania, Estonia, 
        Latvia, Lithuania, and Bulgaria are each designated

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-842]]

        as eligible to receive assistance under the program established 
        under section 203(a) of the NATO Participation Act of 1994 (22 
        U.S.C. 1928 note) and shall be deemed to have been so designated 
        pursuant to section 203(d)(1) of such Act.
            (2) Rule of construction.--The designation of countries 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) as eligible to receive assistance 
        under the program established under section 203(a) of the NATO 
        Participation Act of 1994--
                    (A) is in addition to the designation of other 
                countries by law or pursuant to section 203(d)(2) of 
                such Act as eligible to receive assistance under the 
                program established under section 203(a) of such Act; 
                and
                    (B) shall not preclude the designation by the 
                President of other emerging democracies in Central and 
                Eastern Europe pursuant to section 203(d)(2) of such Act 
                as eligible to receive assistance under the program 
                established under section 203(a) of such Act.
            (3) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
        Romania, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Bulgaria--
                    (A) are to be commended for their progress toward 
                political and economic reform and meeting the guidelines 
                for prospective NATO members;
                    (B) would make an outstanding contribution to 
                furthering the goals of NATO and enhancing stability, 
                freedom, and peace in Europe should they become NATO 
                members; and
                    (C) upon complete satisfaction of all relevant 
                criteria should be invited to become full NATO members 
                at the earliest possible date.

    (c) Regional Airspace Initiative and Partnership for Peace 
Information Management System.--
            (1) In general.--Funds described in paragraph (2) are 
        authorized to be made available to support the implementation of 
        the Regional Airspace Initiative and the Partnership for Peace 
        Information Management System, including--
                    (A) the procurement of items in support of these 
                programs; and
                    (B) the transfer of such items to countries 
                participating in these programs.
            (2) Funds described.--Funds described in this paragraph are 
        funds that are available--
                    (A) during any fiscal year under the NATO 
                Participation Act of 1994 with respect to countries 
                eligible for assistance under that Act; or
                    (B) during fiscal year 1998 under any Act to carry 
                out the Warsaw Initiative.

    (d) Extension of Authority Regarding Excess Defense Articles.--
Section 105 of Public Law 104-164 (110 Stat. 1427) is amended by 
striking ``1996 and 1997'' and inserting ``1997, 1998, and 1999''.
    (e) Conforming Amendments to the NATO Participation Act of 1994.--
Section 203(c) of the NATO Participation Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 1928 
note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, without regard to the 
        restrictions'' and all that follows through ``section)'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2);

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-843]]

            (3) in paragraph (6), by striking ``appropriated under the 
        `Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund' account'' and inserting 
        ``made available for the `Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund' 
        ''; and
            (4) in paragraph (8)--
                    (A) by striking ``any restrictions in sections 516 
                and 519'' and inserting ``section 516(e)'';
                    (B) by striking ``as amended,''; and
                    (C) by striking ``paragraphs (1) and (2)'' and 
                inserting ``paragraph (1)''; and
            (5) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (7), respectively.

SEC. 2704. SENSE OF CONGRESS WITH RESPECT TO THE TREATY ON CONVENTIONAL 
            ARMED FORCES IN EUROPE.

    It is the sense of Congress that no revisions to the Treaty on 
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe will be approved for entry into 
force with respect to the United States that jeopardize fundamental 
United States security interests in Europe or the effectiveness and 
flexibility of NATO as a defensive alliance by--
            (1) extending rights or imposing responsibilities on new 
        NATO members different from those applicable to current NATO 
        members, including rights or responsibilities with respect to 
        the deployment of nuclear weapons and the stationing of troops 
        and equipment from other NATO members;
            (2) limiting the ability of NATO to defend the territory of 
        new NATO members by, for example, restricting the construction 
        of defense infrastructure or limiting the ability of NATO to 
        deploy necessary reinforcements;
            (3) providing any international organization, or any country 
        that is not a member of NATO, with the authority to delay, veto, 
        or otherwise impede deliberations and decisions of the North 
        Atlantic Council or the implementation of such decisions, 
        including deliberations and decisions with respect to the 
        deployment of NATO forces or the admission of additional members 
        to NATO; or
            (4) impeding the development of enhanced relations between 
        NATO and other European countries that do not belong to the 
        Alliance.

SEC. 2705. RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO BALLISTIC MISSILE 
            DEFENSE.

    (a) Policy of Section.--This section is enacted in order to 
implement the policy set forth in section 2702(c).
    (b) Restriction on Entry Into Force of ABM/TMD Demarcation 
Agreements.--An ABM/TMD demarcation agreement shall not be binding on 
the United States, and shall not enter into force with respect to the 
United States, unless, after the date of enactment of this Act, that 
agreement is specifically approved with the advice and consent of the 
United States Senate pursuant to Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the 
Constitution.
    (c) Sense of Congress With Respect to Demarcation Agreements.--
            (1) Relationship to multilateralization of abm treaty.--It 
        is the sense of Congress that no ABM/TMD demarcation agreement 
        will be considered for advice and consent to ratification 
        unless, consistent with the certification of the President 
        pursuant to condition (9) of the resolution of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-844]]

        ratification of the CFE Flank Document, the President submits 
        for Senate advice and consent to ratification any agreement, 
        arrangement, or understanding that would--
                    (A) add one or more countries as State Parties to 
                the ABM Treaty, or otherwise convert the ABM Treaty from 
                a bilateral treaty to a multilateral treaty; or
                    (B) change the geographic scope or coverage of the 
                ABM Treaty, or otherwise modify the meaning of the term 
                ``national territory'' as
used in Article VI and Article IX of the ABM Treaty.
            (2) Preservation of united states theater ballistic missile 
        defense potential.--It is the sense of Congress that no ABM/TMD 
        demarcation agreement that would reduce the capabilities of 
        United States theater missile defense systems, or the numbers or 
        deployment patterns of such systems, will be approved for entry 
        into force with respect to the United States.

     <<NOTE: President.>> (d) Report on Cooperative Projects With 
Russia.--Not later than January 1, 1999, and January 1, 2000, the 
President shall submit to the Committees on International Relations, 
National Security, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Committees on Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and 
Appropriations of the Senate a report on cooperative projects with 
Russia in the area of ballistic missile defense, including in the area 
of early warning. Each such report shall include the following:
            (1) Cooperative projects.--A description of all cooperative 
        projects conducted in the area of early warning and ballistic 
        missile defense during the preceding fiscal year and the fiscal 
        year during which the report is submitted.
            (2) Funding.--A description of the funding for such projects 
        during the preceding fiscal year and the year during which the 
        report is submitted and the proposed funding for such projects 
        for the next fiscal year.
            (3) Status of dialogue or discussions.--A description of the 
        status of any dialogue or discussions conducted during the 
        preceding fiscal year between the United States and Russia aimed 
        at exploring the potential for mutual accommodation of 
        outstanding issues between the two nations on matters relating 
        to ballistic missile defense and the ABM Treaty, including the 
        possibility of developing a strategic relationship not based on 
        mutual nuclear threats.

    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) ABM/TMD demarcation agreement.--The term ``ABM/TMD 
        demarcation agreement'' means any agreement that establishes a 
        demarcation between theater ballistic missile defense systems 
        and strategic antiballistic missile defense systems for purposes 
        of the ABM Treaty.
            (2) ABM treaty.--The term ``ABM Treaty'' means the Treaty 
        Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
        Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile 
        Systems, signed at Moscow on May 26, 1972 (23 UST 3435), and 
        includes the Protocols to that Treaty, signed at Moscow on July 
        3, 1974 (27 UST 1645).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-845]]

              TITLE XXVIII--OTHER FOREIGN POLICY PROVISIONS

SEC. 2801. REPORTS ON CLAIMS BY UNITED STATES FIRMS AGAINST THE 
            GOVERNMENT OF SAUDI ARABIA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
State, after consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Commerce, shall submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees on specific actions taken by the Department of 
State, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Commerce toward 
progress in resolving the commercial disputes between United States 
firms and the Government of Saudi Arabia that are described in the June 
30, 1993, report by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 9140(c) 
of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-
396), including the additional claims noticed by the Department of 
Commerce on page 2 of that report.
    (b) Termination.--Subsection (a) shall cease to have effect on the 
earlier of--
            (1) the date of submission of the third report under that 
        subsection; or
            (2) the date that the Secretary of State, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce, 
        certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees 
        that the commercial disputes referred to in subsection (a) have 
        been resolved satisfactorily.

SEC. 2802. REPORTS ON DETERMINATIONS UNDER TITLE IV OF THE LIBERTAD ACT.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and every 3 months thereafter during the period 
ending September 30, 1999, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation of 
section 401 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) 
Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6091). Each report shall include--
            (1) an unclassified list, by economic sector, of the number 
        of entities then under review pursuant to that section;
            (2) an unclassified list of all entities and a classified 
        list of all individuals that the Secretary of State has 
        determined to be subject to that section;
            (3) an unclassified list of all entities and a classified 
        list of all individuals that the Secretary of State has 
        determined are no longer subject to that section;
            (4) an explanation of the status of the review underway for 
        the cases referred to in paragraph (1); and
            (5) an unclassified explanation of each determination of the 
        Secretary of State under section 401(a) of that Act and each 
        finding of the Secretary under section 401(c) of that Act--
                    (A) since the date of the enactment of this Act, in 
                the case of the first report under this subsection; and
                    (B) in the preceding 3-month period, in the case of 
                each subsequent report.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-846]]

    (b) Protection of Identity of Concerned Entities.--In preparing the 
report under subsection (a), the names of entities shall not be 
identified under paragraph (1) or (4).

SEC. 2803. REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE HAGUE CONVENTION ON 
            INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Beginning 6 months after the date of the enactment 
of this Act and every 12 months thereafter during the period ending 
September 30, 1999, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees on the compliance with the 
provisions of the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 1980, by the signatory 
countries of the Convention. Each such report shall include the 
following information:
            (1) The number of applications for the return of children 
        submitted by United States citizens to the Central Authority for 
        the United States that remain unresolved more than 18 months 
        after the date of filing.
            (2) A list of the countries to which children in unresolved 
        applications described in paragraph (1) are alleged to have been 
        abducted.
            (3) A list of the countries that have demonstrated a pattern 
        of noncompliance with the obligations of the Convention with 
        respect to applications for the return of children submitted by 
        United States citizens to the Central Authority for the United 
        States.
            (4) Detailed information on each unresolved case described 
        in paragraph (1) and on actions taken by the Department of State 
        to resolve each such case.
            (5) Information on efforts by the Department of State to 
        encourage other countries to become signatories of the 
        Convention.

    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Central Authority for 
the United States'' has the meaning given the term in Article 6 of the 
Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, done 
at The Hague on October 25, 1980.

SEC. 2804. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO RECOGNITION OF THE ECUMENICAL 
            PATRIARCHATE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY.

    It is the sense of Congress that the United States should use its 
influence with the Government of Turkey to suggest that the Government 
of Turkey--
            (1) recognize the Ecumenical Patriarchate and its 
        nonpolitical, religious mission;
            (2) ensure the continued maintenance of the institution's 
        physical security needs, as provided for under Turkish and 
        international law, including the Treaty of Lausanne, the 1968 
        Protocol, the Helsinki Final Act (1975), and the Charter of 
        Paris;
            (3) provide for the proper protection and safety of the 
        Ecumenical Patriarch and Patriarchate personnel; and
            (4) reopen the Ecumenical Patriarchate's Halki Patriarchal 
        School of Theology.

SEC. 2805. REPORT ON RELATIONS WITH VIETNAM.

    In order to provide Congress with the necessary information by which 
to evaluate the relationship between the United States

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-847]]

and Vietnam, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees, not later than 90 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act and every 180 days thereafter during the 
period ending September 30, 1999, on the extent to which--
            (1) the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is 
        cooperating with the United States in providing the fullest 
        possible accounting of all unresolved cases of prisoners of war 
        (POWs) or persons missing-in-action (MIAs) through the provision 
        of records and the unilateral and joint recovery and 
        repatriation of American remains;
            (2) the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has 
        made progress toward the release of all political and religious 
        prisoners, including Catholic, Protestant, and Buddhist clergy;
            (3) the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is 
        cooperating with requests by the United States to obtain full 
        and free access to persons of humanitarian interest to the 
        United States for interviews under the Orderly Departure (ODP) 
        and Resettlement Opportunities for Vietnamese Refugees (ROVR) 
        programs, and in providing exit visas for such persons;
            (4) the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam has 
        taken vigorous action to end extortion, bribery, and other 
        corrupt practices in connection with such exit visas; and
            (5) the Government of the United States is making vigorous 
        efforts to interview and resettle former reeducation camp 
        victims, their immediate families including unmarried sons and 
        daughters, former United States Government employees, and other 
        persons eligible for the ODP program, and to give such persons 
        the full benefit of all applicable United States laws including 
        sections 599D and 599E of the Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1990 
        (Public Law 101-167).

SEC. 2806. REPORTS AND POLICY CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN 
            LAOS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of State shall submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees on the allegations of persecution and abuse of 
the Hmong and Laotian
refugees who have returned to Laos. The report shall include the 
following:
            (1) A full investigation, including full documentation of 
        individual cases of persecution, of the Lao Government's 
        treatment of Hmong and Laotian refugees who have returned to 
        Laos.
            (2) The steps the Department of State will take to continue 
        to monitor any systematic human rights violations by the 
        Government of Laos.
            (3) The actions which the Department of State will take to 
        seek to ensure the cessation of human rights violations.

SEC. 2807. REPORT ON AN ALLIANCE AGAINST NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING IN THE 
            WESTERN HEMISPHERE.

    (a) Sense of Congress on Discussions for Alliance.--
            (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
        President should discuss with the democratically-elected 
        governments of the Western Hemisphere, the prospect of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-848]]

        forming a multilateral alliance to address problems relating to 
        international drug trafficking in the Western Hemisphere.
            (2) Consultations.--In the consultations on the prospect of 
        forming an alliance described in paragraph (1), the President 
        should seek the input of such governments on the possibility of 
        forming one or more structures within the alliance--
                    (A) to develop a regional, multilateral strategy to 
                address the threat posed to nations in the Western 
                Hemisphere by drug trafficking; and
                    (B) to establish a new mechanism for improving 
                multilateral coordination of drug interdiction and drug-
                related law enforcement activities in the Western 
                Hemisphere.

    (b) Report.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not <<NOTE: President.>> later than 60 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the proposal discussed 
        under subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
                    (A) An analysis of the reactions of the governments 
                concerned to the proposal.
                    (B) An assessment of the proposal, including an 
                evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of 
                forming the alliance.
                    (C) A determination in light of the analysis and 
                assessment whether or not the formation of the alliance 
                is in the national interests of the United States.
                    (D) If the President determines that the formation 
                of the alliance is in the national interests of the 
                United States, a plan for encouraging and facilitating 
                the formation of the alliance.
                    (E) If the President determines that the formation 
                of the alliance is not in the national interests of the 
                United States, an alternative proposal to improve 
                significantly efforts against the threats posed by 
                narcotics trafficking in the Western Hemisphere, 
                including an explanation of how the alternative proposal 
                will--
                          (i) improve upon current cooperation and 
                      coordination of counter-drug efforts among nations 
                      in the Western Hemisphere;
                          (ii) provide for the allocation of the 
                      resources required to make significant progress in 
                      disrupting and disbanding the criminal 
                      organizations responsible for the trafficking of 
                      illegal drugs in the Western Hemisphere; and
                          (iii) differ from and improve upon past 
                      strategies adopted by the United States Government 
                      which have failed to make sufficient progress 
                      against the trafficking of illegal drugs in the 
                      Western Hemisphere.
            (2) Unclassified form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 2808. CONGRESSIONAL STATEMENT REGARDING THE ACCESSION OF TAIWAN TO 
            THE WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The people of the United States and the people of the 
        Republic of China on Taiwan have long enjoyed extensive ties.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-849]]

            (2) Taiwan is currently the 8th largest trading partner of 
        the United States.
            (3) The executive branch of Government has committed 
        publicly to support Taiwan's bid to join the World Trade 
        Organization and has declared that the United States will not 
        oppose this bid solely on the grounds that the People's Republic 
        of China, which also seeks membership in the World Trade 
        Organization, is not yet eligible because of its unacceptable 
        trade practices.
            (4) The United States and Taiwan have concluded discussions 
        on a variety of outstanding trade issues that remain unresolved 
        with the People's Republic of China and that are necessary for 
        the United States to support Taiwan's membership in the World 
        Trade Organization.
            (5) The reversion of control over Hong Kong--a member of the 
        World Trade Organization--to the People's Republic of China in 
        many respects affords to the People's Republic of China the 
        practical benefit of membership in the World Trade Organization 
        for a substantial portion of its trade in goods despite the fact 
        that the trade practices of the People's Republic of China 
        currently fall far short of what the United States expects for 
        membership in the World Trade Organization.
            (6) The executive branch of Government has announced its 
        interest in the admission of the People's Republic of China to 
        the World Trade Organization; the fundamental sense of fairness 
        of the people of the United States warrants the United States 
        Government's support for Taiwan's relatively more meritorious 
        application for membership in the World Trade Organization.
            (7) Despite having made significant progress in negotiations 
        for its accession to the World Trade Organization, Taiwan has 
        yet to offer acceptable terms of accession in agricultural and 
        certain other market sectors.
            (8) It is in the economic interest of United States 
        consumers and exporters for Taiwan to complete those 
        requirements for accession to the World Trade Organization at 
        the earliest possible moment.

    (b) Congressional Statement.--The Congress favors public support by 
officials of the Department of State for the accession of Taiwan to the 
World Trade Organization.

SEC. 2809. PROGRAMS OR PROJECTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY 
            AGENCY IN CUBA.

    (a) Withholding of United States Proportional Share of Assistance.--
Section 307(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2227(c)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The limitations'' and inserting ``(1) 
        Subject to paragraph (2), the limitations''; and
             <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (2) by adding at the end the 
        following:

    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), with respect to 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this chapter and available for 
the International Atomic Energy Agency, the limitations of subsection 
(a) shall apply to programs or projects of such Agency in Cuba.
    ``(B)(i) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to programs 
or projects of the International Atomic Energy Agency that provide for 
the discontinuation, dismantling, or safety inspection

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-850]]

of nuclear facilities or related materials, or for inspections and 
similar activities designed to prevent the development of nuclear 
weapons by a country described in subsection (a).
    ``(ii) Clause (i) shall not apply with respect to the Juragua 
Nuclear Power Plant near Cienfuegos, Cuba, or the Pedro Pi Nuclear 
Research Center unless Cuba--
            ``(I) ratifies the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
        Nuclear Weapons (21 UST 483) or the Treaty for the Prohibition 
        of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (commonly known as the 
        Treaty of Tlatelolco);
            ``(II) negotiates full-scope safeguards of the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency not later than two years after ratification 
        by Cuba of such Treaty; and
            ``(III) incorporates internationally accepted nuclear safety 
        standards.''.

    (b) Opposition to <<NOTE: 22 USC 2021 note.>> Certain Programs or 
Projects.--The Secretary of State shall direct the United States 
representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency to oppose the 
following:
            (1) Technical assistance programs or projects of the Agency 
        at the Juragua Nuclear Power Plant near Cienfuegos, Cuba, and at 
        the Pedro Pi Nuclear Research Center.
            (2) Any other program or project of the Agency in Cuba that 
        is, or could become, a threat to the security of the United 
        States.

     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2021 note.>> (c) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Request for iaea reports.--The Secretary of State shall 
        direct the United States representative to the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency to request the Director-General of the 
        Agency to submit to the United States all reports prepared with 
        respect to all programs or projects of the Agency that are of 
        concern to the United States, including the programs or projects 
        described in subsection (b).
            (2) Annual reports to the congress.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on an annual 
        basis thereafter, the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
        the United States representative to the International Atomic 
        Energy Agency, shall prepare and submit to the Congress a report 
        containing a description of all programs or projects of the 
        Agency in each country described in section 307(a) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2227(a)).

SEC. 2810. LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES AIDING CUBA NUCLEAR 
            DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 620 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
(22 U.S.C. 2370), as amended by this division, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(y)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the President shall 
withhold from amounts made available under this Act or any other Act and 
allocated for a country for a fiscal year an amount equal to the 
aggregate value of nuclear fuel and related assistance and credits 
provided by that country, or any entity of that country, to Cuba during 
the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(2) The requirement to withhold assistance for a country for a 
fiscal year under paragraph (1) shall not apply if Cuba--
            ``(A) has ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
        Nuclear Weapons (21 UST 483) or the
Treaty of Tlatelelco,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-851]]

and Cuba is in compliance with the requirements of either such Treaty;
            ``(B) has negotiated and is in compliance with full-scope 
        safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency not later 
        than two years after ratification by Cuba of such Treaty; and
            ``(C) incorporates and is in compliance with internationally 
        accepted nuclear safety standards.

    ``(3) The Secretary of State shall prepare and submit to the 
Congress each year a report containing a description of the amount of 
nuclear fuel and related assistance and credits provided by any country, 
or any entity of a country, to Cuba during the preceding year, including 
the terms of each transfer of such fuel, assistance, or credits.''.
     <<NOTE: 22 USC 2370 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--Section 620(y) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by subsection (a), shall 
apply with respect to assistance provided in fiscal years beginning on 
or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2811. INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR IRELAND.

    (a) Purposes.--Section 2(b) of the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act 
of 1986 (Public Law 99-415; 100 Stat. 947) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new sentences: ``United States contributions should be 
used in a manner that effectively increases employment opportunities in 
communities with rates of unemployment higher than the local or urban 
average of unemployment in Northern Ireland. In addition, such 
contributions should be used to benefit individuals residing in such 
communities.''.
    (b) Conditions and Understandings.--Section 5(a) of such Act is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``The United States'' and inserting 
                the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The United States'';
                    (B) by striking ``in this Act may be used'' and 
                inserting the following: ``in this Act--
                    ``(A) may be used'';
                    (C) by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; 
                and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) should be provided to individuals or entities 
                in Northern Ireland which employ practices consistent 
                with the principles of economic justice.''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``The restrictions'' 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Additional requirements.--The restrictions''.

    (c) Prior Certifications.--Section 5(c)(2) of such Act is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``in accordance with 
        the principle of equality'' and all that follows and inserting 
        ``to individuals and entities whose practices are consistent 
        with principles of economic justice; and''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``and will create employment 
        opportunities in regions and communities of Northern Ireland 
        suffering from high rates of unemployment''.

    (d) Annual Reports.--Section 6 of such Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-852]]

            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) the extent to which the practices of each individual 
        or entity receiving assistance from United States contributions 
        to the International Fund has been consistent with the 
        principles of economic justice.''.

    (e) Requirements Relating to Funds.--Section 7 of such Act is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Prohibition.--Nothing included herein shall require quotas or 
reverse discrimination or mandate their use.''.
    (f) Definitions.--Section 8 of such Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) the term `principles of economic justice' means the 
        following principles:
                    ``(A) Increasing the representation of individuals 
                from underrepresented religious groups in the workforce, 
                including managerial, supervisory, administrative, 
                clerical, and technical jobs.
                    ``(B) Providing adequate security for the protection 
                of minority employees at the workplace.
                    ``(C) Banning provocative sectarian or political 
                emblems from the workplace.
                    ``(D) Providing that all job openings be advertised 
                publicly and providing that special recruitment efforts 
                be made to attract applicants from underrepresented 
                religious groups.
                    ``(E) Providing that layoff, recall, and termination 
                procedures do not favor a particular religious group.
                    ``(F) Abolishing job reservations, apprenticeship 
                restrictions, and differential employment criteria which 
                discriminate on the basis of religion.
                    ``(G) Providing for the development of training 
                programs that will prepare substantial numbers of 
                minority employees for skilled jobs, including the 
                expansion of existing programs and the creation of new 
                programs to train, upgrade, and improve the skills of 
                minority employees.
                    ``(H) Establishing procedures to assess, identify, 
                and actively recruit minority employees with the 
                potential for further advancement.
                    ``(I) Providing for the appointment of a senior 
                management staff member to be responsible for the 
                employment efforts of the entity and, within a 
                reasonable period of time, the implementation of the 
                principles described in subparagraphs (A) through 
                (H).''.

SEC. 2812. SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIC OPPOSITION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Assistance for Justice in Iraq.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 1998 $3,000,000 for assistance to an 
international commission to establish an international record for the 
criminal culpability of Saddam Hussein and other Iraqi officials and for 
an international criminal tribunal established for the purpose of 
indicting, prosecuting, and punishing Saddam

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-853]]

 Hussein and other Iraqi officials responsible for crimes against 
humanity, genocide, and other violations of international law.
    (b) Assistance to the Democratic Opposition in Iraq.--There are 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1998 $15,000,000 to 
provide support for democratic opposition forces in Iraq, of which--
            (1) not more than $10,000,000 shall be for assistance to the 
        democratic opposition, including leadership organization, 
        training political cadre, maintaining offices, disseminating 
        information, and developing and implementing agreements among 
        opposition elements; and
            (2) not more than $5,000,000 of the funds made available 
        under this subsection shall be available only for grants to RFE/
        RL, Incorporated, for surrogate radio broadcasting by RFE/RL, 
        Incorporated, to the Iraqi people in the Arabic language, such 
        broadcasts to be designated as ``Radio Free Iraq''.

    (c) Assistance for Humanitarian Relief and Reconstruction.--There 
are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1998 $20,000,000 for 
the relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of people living in Iraq, 
and communities located in Iraq, who are not under the control of the 
Saddam Hussein regime.
    (d) Availability.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this 
section shall be provided in addition to amounts otherwise made 
available and shall remain available until expended.
    (e) Notification.--All assistance provided pursuant to this section 
shall be notified to Congress in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f) Relation to Other Laws.--Funds made available to carry out the 
provisions of this section may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State and the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
of the United States Information Agency shall submit a detailed report 
to Congress describing--
            (1) the costs, implementation, and plans for the 
        establishment of an international war crimes tribunal described 
        in subsection (a);
            (2) the establishment of a political assistance program, and 
        the surrogate broadcasting service, as described in subsection 
        (b); and
            (3) the humanitarian assistance program described in 
        subsection (c).

SEC. 2813. DEVELOPMENT OF DEMOCRACY IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States stands as the beacon of democracy and 
        freedom in the world.
            (2) A stable and democratic Republic of Serbia is important 
        to the interests of the United States, the international 
        community, and to peace in the Balkans.
            (3) Democratic forces in the Republic of Serbia are 
        beginning to emerge, notwithstanding the efforts of Europe's 
        longest-standing communist dictator, Slobodan Milosevic.
            (4) The Serbian authorities have sought to continue to 
        hinder the growth of free and independent news media in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-854]]

        the Republic of Serbia, in particular the broadcast news media, 
        and have harassed journalists performing their professional 
        duties.
            (5) Under Slobodan Milosevic, the political opposition in 
        Serbia has been denied free, fair, and equal opportunity to 
        participate in the democratic process.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States, the international community, 
        nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector should 
        continue to promote the building of democratic institutions and 
        civic society in the Republic of Serbia, help strengthen the 
        independent news media, and press for the Government of the 
        Republic of Serbia to respect the rule of law; and
            (2) the normalization of relations between the ``Federal 
        Republic of Yugoslavia'' (Serbia and Montenegro) and the United 
        States requires, among other things, that President Milosevic 
        and the leadership of Serbia--
                    (A) promote the building of democratic institutions, 
                including strengthening the independent news media and 
                respecting the rule of law;
                    (B) promote the respect for human rights throughout 
                the ``Federal Republic of Yugoslavia'' (Serbia and 
                Montenegro); and
                    (C) promote and encourage free, fair, and equal 
                conditions for the democratic opposition in Serbia.

   DIVISION--H <<NOTE: Depository Institution-GSE Affiliation Act of 
1998. 12 USC 1811 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Division may be cited as the ``Depository Institution-GSE 
Affiliation Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. CERTAIN AFFILIATION PERMITTED.

    Section 18(s) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1828(s)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) Student loans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--This subsection shall not apply 
                to any arrangement between the Holding Company (or any 
                subsidiary of the Holding Company other than the Student 
                Loan Marketing Association) and a depository 
                institution, if the Secretary approves the affiliation 
                and determines that--
                          ``(i) the reorganization of such Association 
                      in accordance with section 440 of the Higher 
                      Education Act of 1965, as amended, will not be 
                      adversely affected by the arrangement;
                          ``(ii) the dissolution of the Association 
                      pursuant to such reorganization will occur before 
                      the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date 
                      on which such arrangement is consummated or on 
                      such earlier date as the Secretary deems 
                      appropriate: Provided, That the Secretary may 
                      extend this period for not more than 1 year at a 
                      time if the Secretary determines that such 
                      extension is in the public interest and is

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-855]]

                      appropriate to achieve an orderly reorganization 
                      of the Association or to prevent market 
                      disruptions in connection with such 
                      reorganization, but no such extensions shall in 
                      the aggregate exceed 2 years;
                          ``(iii) the Association will not purchase or 
                      extend credit to, or guarantee or provide credit 
                      enhancement to, any obligation of the depository 
                      institution;
                          ``(iv) the operations of the Association will 
                      be separate from the operations of the depository 
                      institution; and
                          ``(v) until the `dissolution date' (as that 
                      term is defined in section 440 of the Higher 
                      Education Act of 1965, as amended) has occurred, 
                      such depository institution will not use the trade 
                      name or service mark `Sallie Mae' in connection 
                      with any product or service it offers if the 
                      appropriate Federal banking agency for such 
                      depository institution determines that--
                                    ``(I) the depository institution is 
                                the only institution offering such 
                                product or service using the `Sallie 
                                Mae' name; and
                                    ``(II) such use would result in the 
                                depository institution having an unfair 
                                competitive advantage over other 
                                depository institutions.
                    ``(B) Terms and conditions.--In approving any 
                arrangement referred to in subparagraph (A) the 
                Secretary may impose any terms and conditions on such an 
                arrangement that the Secretary considers appropriate, 
                including--
                          ``(i) imposing additional restrictions on the 
                      issuance of debt obligations by the Association; 
                      or
                          ``(ii) restricting the use of proceeds from 
                      the issuance of such debt.
                    ``(C) Additional limitations.--In the event that the 
                Holding Company (or any subsidiary of the Holding 
                Company) enters into such an arrangement, the value of 
                the Association's `investment portfolio' shall not at 
                any time exceed the lesser of--
                          ``(i) the value of such portfolio on the date 
                      of the enactment of this subsection; or
                          ``(ii) the value of such portfolio on the date 
                      such an arrangement is consummated. The term 
                      `investment portfolio' shall mean all investments 
                      shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the 
                      Association other than--
                                    ``(I) any instrument or assets 
                                described in section 439(d) of the 
                                Higher Education Act of 1965, as 
                                amended;
                                    ``(II) any direct noncallable 
                                obligations of the United States or any 
                                agency thereof for which the full faith 
                                and credit of the United States is 
                                pledged; or
                                    ``(III) cash or cash equivalents.
                    ``(D) Enforcement.--The terms and conditions imposed 
                under subparagraph (B) may be enforced by the Secretary 
                in accordance with section 440 of the Higher Education 
                Act of 1965.
                    ``(E) Definitions.--For purposes of this paragraph, 
                the following definition shall apply--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-856]]

                          ``(i) Association; holding company.--
                      Notwithstanding any provision in section 3, the 
                      terms `Association' and `Holding Company' have the 
                      same meanings as in section 440(i) of the Higher 
                      Education Act of 1965.
                          ``(ii) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means 
                      the Secretary of the Treasury.''.

   DIVISION <<NOTE: Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 
1998. 22 USC 6701 note.>> I--CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

      This Division may be cited as the ``Chemical Weapons Convention 
Implementation Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.

                       TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. Designation of United States National Authority.
Sec. 102. No abridgement of constitutional rights.
Sec. 103. Civil liability of the United States.

TITLE II--PENALTIES FOR UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION 
                          OF THE UNITED STATES

                Subtitle A--Criminal and Civil Penalties

Sec. 201. Criminal and civil provisions.

              Subtitle B--Revocations of Export Privileges

Sec. 211. Revocations of export privileges.

                         TITLE III--INSPECTIONS

Sec. 301. Definitions in the title.
Sec. 302. Facility agreements.
Sec. 303. Authority to conduct inspections.
Sec. 304. Procedures for inspections.
Sec. 305. Warrants.
Sec. 306. Prohibited acts relating to inspections.
Sec. 307. National security exception.
Sec. 308. Protection of constitutional rights of contractors.
Sec. 309. Annual report on inspections.
Sec. 310. United States assistance in inspections at private facilities.

                            TITLE IV--REPORTS

Sec. 401. Reports required by the United States National Authority.
Sec. 402. Prohibition relating to low concentrations of schedule 2 and 3 
           chemicals.
Sec. 403. Prohibition relating to unscheduled discrete organic chemicals 
           and coincidental byproducts in waste streams.
Sec. 404. Confidentiality of information.
Sec. 405. Recordkeeping violations.

                          TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 501. Penalties.
Sec. 502. Specific enforcement.
Sec. 503. Expedited judicial review.

                   TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 601. Repeal.
Sec. 602. Prohibition.
Sec. 603. Bankruptcy actions.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6701.>> DEFINITIONS.
      In this Act:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-857]]

            (1) Chemical weapon.--The term ``chemical weapon'' means the 
        following, together or separately:
                    (A) A toxic chemical and its precursors, except 
                where intended for a purpose not prohibited under this 
                Act as long as the type and quantity is consistent with 
                such a purpose.
                    (B) A munition or device, specifically designed to 
                cause death or other harm through toxic properties of 
                those toxic chemicals specified in subparagraph (A), 
                which would be released as a result of the employment of 
                such munition or device.
                    (C) Any equipment specifically designed for use 
                directly in connection with the employment of munitions 
                or devices specified in subparagraph (B).
            (2) Chemical weapons convention; convention.--The terms 
        ``Chemical Weapons Convention'' and ``Convention'' mean the 
        Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, 
        Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their 
        Destruction, opened for signature on January 13, 1993.
            (3) Key component of a binary or multicomponent chemical 
        system.--The term ``key component of a binary or multicomponent 
        chemical system'' means the precursor which plays the most 
        important role in determining the toxic properties of the final 
        product and reacts rapidly with other chemicals in the binary or 
        multicomponent system.
            (4) National of the united states.--The term ``national of 
        the United States'' has the same meaning given such term in 
        section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)).
            (5) Organization.--The term ``Organization'' means the 
        Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
            (6) Person.--The term ``person'', except as otherwise 
        provided, means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, 
        association, trust, estate, public or private institution, any 
        State or any political subdivision thereof, or any political 
        entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any 
        agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such 
        government or nation, or other entity located in the United 
        States.
            (7) Precursor.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``precursor'' means any 
                chemical reactant which takes part at any stage in the 
                production by whatever method of a toxic chemical. The 
                term includes any key component of a binary or 
                multicomponent chemical system.
                    (B) List of precursors.--Precursors which have been 
                identified for the application of verification measures 
                under Article VI of the Convention are listed in 
                schedules contained in the Annex on Chemicals of the 
                Chemical Weapons Convention.
            (8) Purposes not prohibited by this act.--The term 
        ``purposes not prohibited by this Act'' means the following:
                    (A) Peaceful purposes.--Any peaceful purpose related 
                to an industrial, agricultural, research, medical, or 
                pharmaceutical activity or other activity.
                    (B) Protective purposes.--Any purpose directly 
                related to protection against toxic chemicals and to 
                protection against chemical weapons.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-858]]

                    (C) Unrelated military purposes.--Any military 
                purpose of the United States that is not connected with 
                the use of a chemical weapon and that is not dependent 
                on the use of the toxic or poisonous properties of the 
                chemical weapon to cause death or other harm.
                    (D) Law enforcement purposes.--Any law enforcement 
                purpose, including any domestic riot control purpose and 
                including imposition of capital punishment.
            (9) Technical secretariat.--The term ``Technical 
        Secretariat'' means the Technical Secretariat of the 
        Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons established 
        by the Chemical Weapons Convention.
            (10) Schedule 1 chemical agent.--The term `Schedule 1 
        chemical agent' means any of the following, together or 
        separately:
                    (A) O-Alkyl (<ls-thn-eq>C<INF>10</INF>, incl. 
                cycloalkyl) alkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-phosphonofluoridates
                          (e.g. Sarin: O-Isopropyl 
                      methylphosphonofluoridate Soman: O-Pinacolyl 
                      methylphosphonofluoridate).
                    (B) O-Alkyl (<ls-thn-eq>C<INF>10</INF>, incl. 
                cycloalkyl) N,N-dialkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-phosphoramidocyanidates
                          (e.g. Tabun: O-Ethyl N,N-dimethyl 
                      phosphoramidocyanidate).
                    (C) O-Alkyl (H or <ls-thn-eq>C<INF>10</INF>, incl. 
                cycloalkyl) S-2-dialkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-aminoethyl alkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonothiolates and 
                      corresponding alkylated or protonated salts
                          (e.g. VX: O-Ethyl S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl 
                      methyl phosphonothiolate).
                    (D) Sulfur mustards:
                          2-Chloroethylchloromethylsulfide
                          Mustard gas: (Bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide
                          Bis(2-chloroethylthio)methane
                          Sesquimustard: 1,2-Bis(2-
                      chloroethylthio)ethane
                          1,3-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane
                          1,4-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane
                          1,5-Bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane
                          Bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl)ether
                          O-Mustard: Bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl)ether.
                    (E) Lewisites:
                          Lewisite 1: 2-Chlorovinyldichloroarsine
                          Lewisite 2: Bis(2-chlorovinyl)chloroarsine
                          Lewisite 3: Tris (2-clorovinyl)arsine.
                    (F) Nitrogen mustards:
                          HN1: Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine
                          HN2: Bis(2-chloroethyl)methylamine
                          HN3: Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine.
                    (G) Saxitoxin.
                    (H) Ricin.
                    (I) Alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) 
                phosphonyldifluorides
                          e.g. DF: Methylphosphonyldifluoride.
                    (J) O-Alkyl (H or >C<INF>10</INF>, incl. 
                cycloalkyl)O-2-dialkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-aminoethyl alkyl
                          (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonites and 
                      corresponding alkylated or protonated salts
      e.g. QL: O-Ethyl O-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonite.
      (K) Chlorosarin: O-Isopropyl methylphosphonochloridate.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-859]]

      (L) Chlorosoman: O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonochloridate.
      (11) Schedule 2 chemical agent.--The term `Schedule 2 chemical 
agent' means the following, together or separately:
      (A) Amiton: O,O-Diethyl S-[2-(diethylamino)ethyl]
      phosphorothiolate and corresponding alkylated or protonated salts.
      (B) PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene.
      (C) BZ: 3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate
      (D) Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1, containing a 
phosphorus atom to which is bonded one methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal 
or iso) group but not further carbon atoms,
      e.g. Methylphosphonyl dichloride Dimethyl methylphosphonate
      Exemption: Fonofos: O-Ethyl S-phenyl ethylphosphonothiolothionate.
      (E) N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidic dihalides.
      (F) Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-
Pr)-phosphoramidates.
      (G) arsenic trichloride.
      (H) 2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid.
      (I) Quinuclidine-3-ol.
      (J) N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and 
corresponding protonated salts.
      (K) N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-ols and 
corresponding protonated salts
      Exemptions: N,N-Dimethylaminoethanol and corresponding protonated 
salts N,N-Diethylaminoethanol and corresponding protonated salts.
      (L) N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-thiols and 
corresponding protonated salts.
      (M) Thiodiglycol: Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide.
      (N) Pinacolyl alcohol: 3,3-Dimethylbutane-2-ol.
      (12) Schedule 3 chemical agent.--The term `Schedule 3 chemical 
agent' means any of the following, together or separately:
      (A) Phosgene: carbonyl dichloride.
      (B) Cyanogen chloride.
      (C) Hydrogen cyanide.
      (D) Chloropicrin: trichloronitromethane.
      (E) Phosphorous oxychloride.
      (F) Phosphorous trichloride.
      (G) Phosphorous pentachloride.
      (H) Trimethyl phosphite.
      (I) Triethyl phosphite.
      (J) Dimethyl phosphite.
      (K) Diethyl phosphite.
      (L) Sulfur monochloride.
      (M) Sulfur dichloride.
      (N) Thionyl chloride.
      (O) Ethyldiethanolamine.
      (P) Methyldiethanolamine.
      (Q) Triethanolamine.
      (13) Toxic chemical.--
      (A) In general.--The term ``toxic chemical'' means any chemical 
which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, 
temporary incapacitation or permanent
harm to humans or animals. The term includes all such chemicals, 
regardless of their origin or of their method of production, and 
regardless of whether they are produced in facilities, in munitions or 
elsewhere.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-860]]

                    (B) List of toxic chemicals.--Toxic chemicals which 
                have been identified for the application of verification 
                measures under Article VI of the Convention are listed 
                in schedules contained in the Annex on Chemicals of the 
                Chemical Weapons Convention.
            (14) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, 
        and the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the 
        United States and includes all places under the jurisdiction or 
        control of the United States, including--
                    (A) any of the places within the provisions of 
                paragraph (41) of section 40102 of title 49, United 
                States Code;
                    (B) any civil aircraft of the United States or 
                public aircraft, as such terms are defined in paragraphs 
                (17) and (37), respectively, of section 40102 of title 
                49, United States Code; and
                    (C) any vessel of the United States, as such term is 
                defined in section 3(b) of the Maritime Drug Enforcement 
                Act, as amended (46 U.S.C., App. sec. 1903(b)).
            (15) Unscheduled discrete organic chemical.--The term 
        ``unscheduled discrete organic chemical'' means any chemical not 
        listed on any schedule contained in the Annex on Chemicals of 
        the Convention that belongs to the class of chemical compounds 
        consisting of all compounds of carbon, except for its oxides, 
        sulfides, and metal carbonates.

                       TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6711.>> DESIGNATION OF UNITED STATES NATIONAL 
            AUTHORITY.
      (a) Designation.--Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article VII of the 
Chemical Weapons Convention, the President shall designate the 
Department of State to be the United States National Authority.
      (b) Purposes.--The United States National Authority shall--
            (1) serve as the national focal point for effective liaison 
        with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
        and other States Parties to the Convention; and
            (2) implement the provisions of this Act in coordination 
        with an interagency group designated by the President consisting 
        of the Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of 
        Energy, the Attorney General, and the heads of agencies 
        considered necessary or advisable by the President.
      (c) Director.--The Secretary of State shall serve as the Director 
of the United States National Authority.
      (d) Powers.--The Director may utilize the administrative 
authorities otherwise available to the Secretary of State in carrying 
out the responsibilities of the Director set forth in this Act.
      (e) Implementation.--The President is authorized to implement and 
carry out the provisions of this Act and the Convention and shall 
designate through Executive order which agencies of the United States 
shall issue, amend, or revise the regulations in order to implement this 
Act and the provisions of the Convention. The Director of the United 
States National Authority shall report to the Congress on the 
regulations that have been issued, implemented, or revised pursuant to 
this section.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-861]]

SEC. 102. NO <<NOTE: 22 USC 6712.>> ABRIDGEMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL 
            RIGHTS.
      No person may be required, as a condition for entering into a 
contract with the United States or as a condition for receiving any 
benefit from the United States, to
waive any right under the Constitution for any purpose related to this 
Act or the Convention.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6713.>> CIVIL LIABILITY OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Claims for Taking of Property.--
            (1) Jurisdiction of courts of the united states.--
                    (A) United states court of federal claims.--The 
                United States Court of Federal Claims shall, subject to 
                subparagraph (B), have jurisdiction of any civil action 
                or claim against the United States for any taking of 
                property without just compensation that occurs by reason 
                of the action of any officer or employee of the 
                Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 
                including any member of an inspection team of the 
                Technical Secretariat, or by reason of the action of any 
                officer or employee of the United States pursuant to 
                this Act or the Convention. For purposes of this 
                subsection, action taken pursuant to or under the color 
                of this Act or the Convention shall be deemed to be 
                action taken by the United States for a public purpose.
                    (B) District courts.--The district courts of the 
                United States shall have original jurisdiction, 
                concurrent with the United States Court of Federal 
                Claims, of any civil action or claim described in 
                subparagraph (A) that does not exceed $10,000.
            (2) Notification.--Any person intending to bring a civil 
        action pursuant to paragraph (1) shall notify the United States 
        National Authority of that intent at least one year before 
        filing the claim in the United States Court of Federal Claims. 
        Action on any claim filed during that one-year period shall be 
        stayed. The one-year period following the notification shall not 
        be counted for purposes of any law limiting the period within 
        which the civil action may be commenced.
            (3) Initial steps by united states government to seek 
        remedies.--During the period between a notification pursuant to 
        paragraph (2) and the filing of a claim covered by the 
        notification in the United States Court of Federal Claims, the 
        United States National Authority shall pursue all diplomatic and 
        other remedies that the United States National Authority 
        considers necessary and appropriate to seek redress for the 
        claim including, but not limited to, the remedies provided for 
        in the Convention and under this Act.
            (4) Burden of proof.--In any civil action under paragraph 
        (1), the plaintiff shall have the burden to establish a prima 
        facie case that, due to acts or omissions of any official of the 
        Organization or any member of an inspection team of the 
        Technical Secretariat taken under the color of the Convention, 
        proprietary information of the plaintiff has been divulged or 
        taken without authorization. If the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims finds that the plaintiff has demonstrated such a 
        prima facie case, the burden shall shift to the United States to 
        disprove the plaintiff's claim. In deciding whether

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-862]]

        the plaintiff has carried its burden, the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims shall consider, among other things--
                    (A) the value of proprietary information;
                    (B) the availability of the proprietary information;
                    (C) the extent to which the proprietary information 
                is based on patents, trade secrets, or other protected 
                intellectual property;
                    (D) the significance of proprietary information; and
                    (E) the emergence of technology elsewhere a 
                reasonable time after the inspection.

    (b) Tort Liability.--The district courts of the United States shall 
have exclusive jurisdiction of civil actions for money damages for any 
tort under the Constitution or any Federal or State law arising from the 
acts or omissions of any officer or employee of the United States or the 
Organization, including any member of an inspection team of the 
Technical Secretariat, taken pursuant to or under color of the 
Convention or this Act.
    (c) Waiver of Sovereign Immunity of the United States.--In any 
action under subsection (a) or (b), the United States may not raise 
sovereign immunity as a defense.
    (d) Authority for Cause of Action.--
            (1) United states actions in united states district court.--
        Notwithstanding any other law, the Attorney General of the 
        United States is authorized to bring an action in the United 
        States District Court for the District of Columbia against any 
        foreign nation for money damages resulting from that nation's 
        refusal to provide indemnification to the United States for any 
        liability imposed on the United States by virtue of the actions 
        of an inspector of the Technical Secretariat who is a national 
        of that foreign nation acting at the direction or the behest of 
        that foreign nation.
            (2) United states actions in courts outside the united 
        states.--The Attorney General is authorized to seek any and all 
        available redress in any international tribunal for 
        indemnification to the United States for any liability imposed 
        on the United States by virtue of the actions of an inspector of 
        the Technical Secretariat, and to seek such redress in the 
        courts of the foreign nation from which the inspector is a 
        national.
            (3) Actions brought by individuals and businesses.--
        Notwithstanding any other law, any national of the United 
        States, or any business entity organized and operating under the 
        laws of the United States, may bring a civil action in a United 
        States District Court for money damages against any foreign 
        national or any business entity organized and operating under 
        the laws of a foreign nation for an unauthorized or unlawful 
        acquisition, receipt, transmission, or use of property by or on 
        behalf of such foreign national or business entity as a result 
        of any tort under the Constitution or any Federal or State law 
        arising from acts or omissions by any officer or employee of the 
        United States or any member of an inspection team of the 
        Technical Secretariat taken pursuant to or under the color of 
        the Convention or this Act.

    (e) Recoupment.--
            (1) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to recoup 
        all funds withdrawn from the Treasury of the United States in 
        payment for any tort under Federal or State law or taking

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-863]]

        under the Constitution arising from the acts or omissions of any 
        foreign person, officer, or employee of the Organization, 
        including any member of an inspection team of the Technical 
        Secretariat, taken under color of the Chemical Weapons 
        Convention or this Act.
            (2) Sanctions on foreign companies.--
                    (A) Imposition of sanctions.--The sanctions provided 
                in subparagraph (B) shall be imposed for a period of not 
                less than ten years upon--
                          (i) any foreign person, officer, or employee 
                      of the Organization, including any member of an 
                      inspection team of the Technical Secretariat, for 
                      whose actions or omissions the United States has 
                      been held liable for a tort or taking pursuant to 
                      this Act; and
                          (ii) any foreign person or business entity 
                      organized and operating under the laws of a 
                      foreign nation which knowingly assisted, 
                      encouraged or induced, in any way, a foreign 
                      person described in clause (i) to publish, 
                      divulge, disclose, or make known in any manner or 
                      to any extent not authorized by the Convention any 
                      United States confidential business information.
                    (B) Sanctions.--
                          (i) Arms export transactions.--The United 
                      States Government shall not sell to a person 
                      described in subparagraph (A) any item on the 
                      United States Munitions List and shall terminate 
                      sales of any defense articles, defense services, 
                      or design and construction services to a person 
                      described in subparagraph (A) under the Arms 
                      Export Control Act.
                          (ii) Sanctions under export administration act 
                      of 1979.--The authorities under section 6 of the 
                      Export Administration Act of 1979 shall be used to 
                      prohibit the export of any goods or technology on 
                      the control list established pursuant to section 
                      5(c)(1) of that Act to a person described in 
                      subparagraph (A).
                          (iii) International financial assistance.--The 
                      United States shall oppose any loan or financial 
                      or technical assistance by international financial 
                      institutions in accordance with section 701 of the 
                      International Financial Institutions Act to a 
                      person described in subparagraph (A).
                          (iv) Export-import bank transactions.--The 
                      United States shall not give approval to 
                      guarantee, insure, or extend credit, or to 
                      participate in the extension of credit to a person 
                      described in subparagraph (A) through the Export-
                      Import Bank of the United States.
                          (v) Private bank transactions.--Regulations 
                      shall be issued to prohibit any United States bank 
                      from making any loan or providing any credit to a 
                      person described in subparagraph (A).
                          (vi) Blocking of assets.--The President shall 
                      take all steps necessary to block any transactions 
                      in any property subject to the jurisdiction of the 
                      United States in which a person described in 
                      subparagraph (A) has any interest whatsoever, for 
                      the purpose of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-864]]

                      recouping funds in accordance with the policy in 
                      paragraph (1).
                          (vii) Denial of landing rights.--Landing 
                      rights in the United States shall be denied to any 
                      private aircraft or air carrier owned by a person 
                      described in subparagraph (A) except as necessary 
                      to provide for emergencies in which the safety of 
                      the aircraft or its crew or passengers is 
                      threatened.
            (3) Sanctions on foreign governments.--
                    (A) Imposition of sanctions.--Whenever the President 
                determines that persuasive information is available 
                indicating that a foreign country has knowingly 
                assisted, encouraged or induced, in any way, a person 
                described in paragraph (2)(A) to publish, divulge, 
                disclose, or make known in any manner or to any extent 
                not authorized by the Convention any United States 
                confidential business information, the President shall, 
                within 30 days after the receipt of such information by 
                the executive branch of Government, notify the Congress 
                in
writing of such determination and, subject to the requirements of 
paragraphs (4) and (5), impose the sanctions provided under subparagraph 
(B) for a period of not less than five years.
                    (B) Sanctions.--
                          (i) Arms export transactions.--The United 
                      States Government shall not sell a country 
                      described in subparagraph (A) any item on the 
                      United States Munitions List, shall terminate 
                      sales of any defense articles, defense services, 
                      or design and construction services to that 
                      country under the Arms Export Control Act, and 
                      shall terminate all foreign military financing for 
                      that country under the Arms Export Control Act.
                          (ii) Denial of certain licenses.--Licenses 
                      shall not be issued for the export to the 
                      sanctioned country of any item on the United 
                      States Munitions List or commercial satellites.
                          (iii) Denial of assistance.--No appropriated 
                      funds may be used for the purpose of providing 
                      economic assistance, providing military assistance 
                      or grant military education and training, or 
                      extending military credits or making guarantees to 
                      a country described in subparagraph (A).
                          (iv) Sanctions under export administration act 
                      of 1979.--The authorities of section 6 of the 
                      Export Administration Act of 1979 shall be used to 
                      prohibit the export of any goods or technology on 
                      the control list established pursuant to section 
                      5(c)(1) of that Act to a country described in 
                      subparagraph (A).
                          (v) International financial assistance.--The 
                      United States shall oppose any loan or financial 
                      or technical assistance by international financial 
                      institutions in accordance with section 701 of the 
                      International Financial Institutions Act to a 
                      country described in subparagraph (A).
                          (vi) Termination of assistance under foreign 
                      assistance act of 1961.--The United States shall 
                      terminate all assistance to a country described in

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-865]]

                      subparagraph (A) under the Foreign Assistance Act 
                      of 1961, except for urgent humanitarian 
                      assistance.
                          (vii) Private bank transactions.--The United 
                      States shall not give approval to guarantee, 
                      insure, or extend credit, or participate in the 
                      extension of credit through the Export-Import Bank 
                      of the United States to a country described in 
                      subparagraph (A).
                          (viii) Private bank transactions.--Regulations 
                      shall be issued to prohibit any United States bank 
                      from making any loan or providing any credit to a 
                      country described in subparagraph (A).
                          (ix) Denial of landing rights.--Landing rights 
                      in the United States shall be denied to any air 
                      carrier owned by a country described in 
                      subparagraph (A), except as necessary to provide 
                      for emergencies in which the safety of the 
                      aircraft or its crew or passengers is threatened.
            (4) Suspension of sanctions upon recoupment by payment.--
        Sanctions imposed under paragraph (2) or (3) may be suspended if 
        the sanctioned person, business entity, or country, within the 
        period specified in that paragraph, provides full and complete 
        compensation to the United States Government, in convertible 
        foreign exchange or other mutually acceptable compensation 
        equivalent to the full value thereof, in satisfaction of a tort 
        or taking for which the United States has been held liable 
        pursuant to this Act.
            (5) Waiver of sanctions on foreign countries.--The President 
        may waive some or all of the sanctions provided under paragraph 
        (3) in a particular case if he determines and certifies in 
        writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that such waiver is 
        necessary to protect the national security interests of the 
        United States. The certification shall set forth the reasons 
        supporting the determination and shall take effect on the date 
        on which the certification is received by the Congress.
            (6) Notification to congress.--Not later than five days 
        after sanctions become effective against a foreign person 
        pursuant to this Act, the President shall transmit written 
        notification of the imposition of sanctions against that foreign 
        person to the chairmen and ranking members of the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
      (f) Sanctions for Unauthorized Disclosure of United States 
Confidential Business Information.--The Secretary of State shall deny a 
visa to, and the Attorney General shall exclude from the United States 
any alien who, after the date of enactment of this Act--
            (1) is, or previously served as, an officer or employee of 
        the Organization and who has willfully published, divulged, 
        disclosed, or made known in any manner or to any extent not 
        authorized by the Convention any United States confidential 
        business information coming to him in the course of his 
        employment or official duties, or by reason of any examination 
        or investigation of any return, report, or record made to or 
        filed with the Organization, or any officer or employee thereof, 
        such practice or disclosure having resulted in financial loses

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-866]]

        or damages to a United States person and for which actions or 
        omissions the United States has been found liable of a tort or 
        taking pursuant to this Act;
            (2) traffics in United States confidential business 
        information, a proven claim to which is owned by a United States 
        national;
            (3) is a corporate officer, principal, shareholder with a 
        controlling interest of an entity which has been involved in the 
        unauthorized disclosure of United States confidential business 
        information, a proven claim to which is owned by a United States 
        national; or
            (4) is a spouse, minor child, or agent of a person 
        excludable under paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
      (g) United States Confidential Business Information Defined.--In 
this section, the term ``United States confidential business 
information'' means any trade secrets or commercial or financial 
information that is privileged and confidential--
            (1) including--
                    (A) data described in section 304(e)(2) of this Act,
                    (B) any chemical structure,
                    (C) any plant design process, technology, or 
                operating method,
                    (D) any operating requirement, input, or result that 
                identifies any type or quantity of chemicals used, 
                processed, or produced, or
                    (E) any commercial sale, shipment, or use of a 
                chemical, or
            (2) as described in section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United 
        States Code,

and that is obtained--
      (i) from a United States person; or
      (ii) through the United States Government or the conduct of an 
inspection on United States territory under the Convention.

TITLE II--PENALTIES FOR UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION 
                          OF THE UNITED STATES

                Subtitle A--Criminal and Civil Penalties

SEC. 201. CRIMINAL AND CIVIL PROVISIONS.

      (a) In General.--Part I of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after chapter 11A the following new chapter:

                     ``CHAPTER 11B--CHEMICAL WEAPONS

``Sec.
``229. Prohibited activities.
``229A. Penalties.
``229B. Criminal forfeitures; destruction of weapons.
``229C. Individual self-defense devices.
``229D. Injunctions.
``229E. Requests for military assistance to enforce prohibition in 
           certain emergencies.
``229F. Definitions.

``Sec. 229. Prohibited activities

    ``(a) Unlawful Conduct.--Except as provided in subsection (b), it 
shall be unlawful for any person knowingly--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-867]]

            ``(1) to develop, produce, otherwise acquire, transfer 
        directly or indirectly, receive, stockpile, retain, own, 
        possess, or use, or threaten to use, any chemical weapon; or
            ``(2) to assist or induce, in any way, any person to violate 
        paragraph (1), or to attempt or conspire to violate paragraph 
        (1).

    ``(b) Exempted Agencies and Persons.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subsection (a) does not apply to the 
        retention, ownership, possession, transfer, or receipt of a 
        chemical weapon by a department, agency, or other entity of the 
        United States, or by a person described in paragraph (2), 
        pending destruction of the weapon.
            ``(2) Exempted persons.--A person referred to in paragraph 
        (1) is--
                    ``(A) any person, including a member of the Armed 
                Forces of the United States, who is authorized by law or 
                by an appropriate officer of the United States to 
                retain, own, possess, transfer, or receive the chemical 
                weapon; or
                    ``(B) in an emergency situation, any otherwise 
                nonculpable person if the person is attempting to 
                destroy or seize the weapon.

    ``(c) Jurisdiction.--Conduct prohibited by subsection (a) is within 
the jurisdiction of the United States if the prohibited conduct--
            ``(1) takes place in the United States;
            ``(2) takes place outside of the United States and is 
        committed by a national of the United States;
            ``(3) is committed against a national of the United States 
        while the national is outside the United States; or
            ``(4) is committed against any property that is owned, 
        leased, or used by the United States or by any department or 
        agency of the United States, whether the property is within or 
        outside the United States.

``Sec. 229A. Penalties

    ``(a) Criminal Penalties.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any person who violates section 229 of 
        this title shall be fined under this title, or imprisoned for 
        any term of years, or both.
            ``(2) Death penalty.--Any person who violates section 229 of 
        this title and by whose action the death of another person is 
        the result shall be punished by death or imprisoned for life.

    ``(b) Civil Penalties.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Attorney General may bring a civil 
        action in the appropriate United States district court against 
        any person who violates section 229 of this title and, upon 
        proof of such violation by a preponderance of the evidence, such 
        person shall be subject to pay a civil penalty in an amount not 
        to exceed $100,000 for each such violation.
            ``(2) Relation to other proceedings.--The imposition of a 
        civil penalty under this subsection does not preclude any other 
        criminal or civil statutory, common law, or administrative 
        remedy, which is available by law to the United States or any 
        other person.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-868]]

    ``(c) Reimbursement of Costs.--The court shall order any person 
convicted of an offense under subsection (a) to reimburse the United 
States for any expenses incurred by the United States incident to the 
seizure, storage, handling, transportation, and destruction or other 
disposition of any property that was seized in connection with an 
investigation of the commission of the offense by that person. A person 
ordered to reimburse the United States for expenses under this 
subsection shall be jointly and severally liable for such expenses with 
each other person, if any, who is ordered under this subsection to 
reimburse the United States for the same expenses.

``Sec. 229B. Criminal forfeitures; destruction of weapons

    ``(a) Property Subject to Criminal Forfeiture.--Any person convicted 
under section 229A(a) shall forfeit to the United States irrespective of 
any provision of State law--
            ``(1) any property, real or personal, owned, possessed, or 
        used by a person involved in the offense;
            ``(2) any property constituting, or derived from, and 
        proceeds the person obtained, directly or indirectly, as the 
        result of such violation; and
            ``(3) any of the property used in any manner or part, to 
        commit, or to facilitate the commission of, such violation.

The court, in imposing sentence on such person, shall order, in addition 
to any other sentence imposed pursuant to section 229A(a), that the 
person forfeit to the United States all property described in this 
subsection. In lieu of a fine otherwise authorized by section 229A(a), a 
defendant who derived profits or other proceeds from an offense may be 
fined not more than twice the gross profits or other proceeds.
    ``(b) Procedures.--
            ``(1) General.--Property subject to forfeiture under this 
        section, any seizure and disposition thereof, and any 
        administrative or judicial proceeding in relation thereto, shall 
        be governed by subsections (b) through (p) of section 413 of the 
        Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 
        U.S.C. 853), except that any reference under those subsections 
        to--
                    ``(A) `this subchapter or subchapter II' shall be 
                deemed to be a reference to section 229A(a); and
                    ``(B) `subsection (a)' shall be deemed to be a 
                reference to subsection (a) of this section.
            ``(2) Temporary restraining orders.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For the purposes of forfeiture 
                proceedings under this section, a temporary restraining 
                order may be entered upon application of the United 
                States without notice or opportunity for a hearing when 
                an information or indictment has not yet been filed with 
                respect to the property, if, in addition to the 
                circumstances described in section 413(e)(2) of the 
                Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 
                1970 (21 U.S.C. 853(e)(2)), the United States 
                demonstrates that there is probable cause to believe 
                that the property with respect to which the order is 
                sought would, in the event of conviction, be subject to 
                forfeiture under this section and exigent circumstances 
                exist that place the life or health of any person in 
                danger.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-869]]

                    ``(B) Warrant of seizure.--If the court enters a 
                temporary restraining order under this paragraph, it 
                shall also issue a warrant authorizing the seizure of 
                such property.
                    ``(C) Applicable procedures.--The procedures and 
                time limits applicable to temporary restraining orders 
                under section 413(e) (2) and (3) of the Comprehensive 
                Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 
                853(e) (2) and (3)) shall apply to temporary restraining 
                orders under this paragraph.

    ``(c) Affirmative Defense.--It is an affirmative defense against a 
forfeiture under subsection (b) that the property--
            ``(1) is for a purpose not prohibited under the Chemical 
        Weapons Convention; and
            ``(2) is of a type and quantity that under the circumstances 
        is consistent with that purpose.

    ``(d) Destruction or Other Disposition.--The Attorney General shall 
provide for the destruction or other appropriate disposition of any 
chemical weapon seized and forfeited pursuant to this section.
    ``(e) Assistance.--The Attorney General may request the head of any 
agency of the United States to assist in the handling, storage, 
transportation, or destruction of property seized under this section.
    ``(f) Owner Liability.--The owner or possessor of any property 
seized under this section shall be liable to the United States for any 
expenses incurred incident to the seizure, including any expenses 
relating to the handling, storage, transportation, and destruction or 
other disposition of the seized property.

``Sec. 229C. Individual self-defense devices

    ``Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any 
individual self-defense device, including those using a pepper spray or 
chemical mace.

``Sec. 229D. Injunctions

    ``The United States may obtain in a civil action an injunction 
against--
            ``(1) the conduct prohibited under section 229 or 229C of 
        this title; or
            ``(2) the preparation or solicitation to engage in conduct 
        prohibited under section 229 or 229D of this title.

``Sec. 229E. Requests for military assistance to enforce prohibition in 
                        certain emergencies

    ``The Attorney General may request the Secretary of Defense to 
provide assistance under section 382 of title 10 in support of 
Department of Justice activities relating to the enforcement of section 
229 of this title in an emergency situation involving a chemical weapon. 
The authority to make such a request may be exercised by another 
official of the Department of Justice in accordance with section 
382(f)(2) of title 10.

``Sec. 229F. Definitions

    ``In this chapter:
            ``(1) Chemical weapon.--The term `chemical weapon' means the 
        following, together or separately:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-870]]

                    ``(A) A toxic chemical and its precursors, except 
                where intended for a purpose not prohibited under this 
                chapter as long as the type and quantity is consistent 
                with such a purpose.
                    ``(B) A munition or device, specifically designed to 
                cause death or other harm through toxic properties of 
                those toxic chemicals specified in subparagraph (A), 
                which would be released as a result of the employment of 
                such munition or device.
                    ``(C) Any equipment specifically designed for use 
                directly in connection with the employment of munitions 
                or devices specified in subparagraph (B).
            ``(2) Chemical weapons convention; convention.--The terms 
        `Chemical Weapons Convention' and `Convention' mean the 
        Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, 
        Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their 
        Destruction, opened for signature on January 13, 1993.
            ``(3) Key component of a binary or multicomponent chemical 
        system.--The term `key component of a binary or multicomponent 
        chemical system' means the precursor which plays the most 
        important role in determining the toxic properties of the final 
        product and reacts rapidly with other chemicals in the binary or 
        multicomponent system.
            ``(4) National of the united states.--The term `national of 
        the United States' has the same meaning given such term in 
        section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)).
            ``(5) Person.--The term `person', except as otherwise 
        provided, means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, 
        association, trust, estate, public or private institution, any 
        State or any political subdivision thereof, or any political 
        entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any 
        agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such 
        government or nation, or other entity located in the United 
        States.
            ``(6) Precursor.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `precursor' means any 
                chemical reactant which takes part at any stage in the 
                production by whatever method of a toxic chemical. The 
                term includes any key component of a binary or 
                multicomponent chemical system.
                    ``(B) List of precursors.--Precursors which have 
                been identified for the application of verification 
                measures under Article VI of the Convention are listed 
                in schedules contained in the Annex on Chemicals of the 
                Chemical Weapons Convention.
            ``(7) Purposes not prohibited by this chapter.--The term 
        `purposes not prohibited by this chapter' means the following:
                    ``(A) Peaceful purposes.--Any peaceful purpose 
                related to an industrial, agricultural, research, 
                medical, or pharmaceutical activity or other activity.
                    ``(B) Protective purposes.--Any purpose directly 
                related to protection against toxic chemicals and to 
                protection against chemical weapons.
                    ``(C) Unrelated military purposes.--Any military 
                purpose of the United States that is not connected with 
                the use of a chemical weapon or that is not dependent

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-871]]

                on the use of the toxic or poisonous properties of the 
                chemical weapon to cause death or other harm.
                    ``(D) Law enforcement purposes.--Any law enforcement 
                purpose, including any domestic riot control purpose and 
                including imposition of capital punishment.
            ``(8) Toxic chemical.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `toxic chemical' means 
                any chemical which through its chemical action on life 
                processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or 
                permanent harm to humans or animals. The term includes 
                all such chemicals, regardless of their origin or of 
                their method of production, and regardless of whether 
                they are produced in facilities, in munitions or 
                elsewhere.
                    ``(B) List of toxic chemicals.--Toxic chemicals 
                which have been identified for the application of 
                verification measures under Article VI of the Convention 
                are listed in schedules contained in the Annex on 
                Chemicals of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
            ``(9) United states.--The term `United States' means the 
        several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, 
        and the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the 
        United States and includes all places under the jurisdiction or 
        control of the United States, including--
                    ``(A) any of the places within the provisions of 
                paragraph (41) of section 40102 of title 49, United 
                States Code;
                    ``(B) any civil aircraft of the United States or 
                public aircraft, as such terms are defined in paragraphs 
                (17) and (37), respectively, of section 40102 of title 
                49, United States Code; and
                    ``(C) any vessel of the United States, as such term 
                is defined in section 3(b) of the Maritime Drug 
                Enforcement Act, as amended (46 U.S.C., App. sec. 
                1903(b)).''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Weapons of mass destruction.--Section 2332a of title 18, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Sec. 2332a. Use of weapons of mass 
                destruction'' and inserting ``Sec. 2332a. Use of certain 
                weapons of mass destruction'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(other than a 
                chemical weapon as that term is defined in section 
                229F)'' after ``weapon of mass destruction''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b), by inserting ``(other than a 
                chemical weapon (as that term is defined in section 
                229F))'' after ``weapon of mass destruction''.
            (2) Table of chapters.--The table of chapters for part I of 
        title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
        item for chapter 11A the following new item:

``11B. Chemical Weapons...........................................229''.

    (c) Repeals.--The following provisions of law are repealed:
            (1) Section 2332c of title 18, United States Code, relating 
        to chemical weapons.
            (2) In the table of sections for chapter 113B of title 18, 
        United States Code, the item relating to section 2332c.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-872]]

              Subtitle B--Revocations of Export Privileges

SEC. 211. <<NOTE: 18 USC 229 note.>> REVOCATIONS OF EXPORT PRIVILEGES.
      If the President determines, after notice and an opportunity for a 
hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States Code, 
that any person within the United States, or any national of the United 
States located outside the United States, has committed any violation of 
section 229 of title 18, United States Code, the President may issue an 
order for the suspension or revocation of the authority of the person to 
export from the United States any goods or technology (as such terms are 
defined in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
U.S.C. App. 2415)).

                         TITLE III--INSPECTIONS

SEC. 301. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6721.>> DEFINITIONS IN THE TITLE.
      (a) In General.--In this title, the terms ``challenge 
inspection'', ``plant site'', ``plant'', ``facility agreement'', 
``inspection team'', and ``requesting state party'' have the meanings 
given those terms in Part I of the Annex on Implementation and 
Verification of the Chemical Weapons Convention. The term ``routine 
inspection'' means an inspection, other than an ``initial inspection'', 
undertaken pursuant to Article VI of the Convention.
      (b) Definition of Judge of the United States.--In this title, the 
term ``judge of the United States'' means a judge or magistrate judge of 
a district court of the United States.

SEC. 302. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6722.>> FACILITY AGREEMENTS.
      (a) Authorization of Inspections.--Inspections by the Technical 
Secretariat of plants, plant sites, or other facilities or locations for 
which the United States has a facility agreement with the Organization 
shall be conducted in accordance with the facility agreement. Any such 
facility agreement may not in any way limit the right of the owner or 
operator of the facility to withhold consent to an inspection request.
      (b) Types of Facility Agreements.--
            (1) Schedule two facilities.--The United States National 
        Authority shall ensure that facility agreements for plants, 
        plant sites, or other facilities or locations that are subject 
        to inspection pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article VI of the 
        Convention are concluded unless the owner, operator, occupant, 
        or agent in charge of the facility and the Technical Secretariat 
        agree that such an agreement is not necessary.
            (2) Schedule three facilities.--The United States National 
        Authority shall ensure that facility agreements are concluded 
        for plants, plant sites, or other facilities or locations that 
        are subject to inspection pursuant to paragraph 5 or 6 of 
        Article VI of the Convention if so requested by the owner, 
        operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the facility.
      (c) Notification Requirements.--The United States National 
Authority shall ensure that the owner, operator, occupant, or agent in 
charge of a facility prior to the development of the agreement relating 
to that facility is notified and, if the person notified so requests, 
the person may participate in the preparations for the negotiation of 
such an agreement. To the maximum extent practicable consistent with the 
Convention, the owner and the operator,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-873]]

occupant or agent in charge of a facility may observe negotiations of 
the agreement between the United States and the Organization concerning 
that facility.
      (d) Content of Facility Agreements.--Facility agreements shall--
            (1) identify the areas, equipment, computers, records, data, 
        and samples subject to inspection;
            (2) describe the procedures for providing notice of an 
        inspection to the owner, occupant, operator, or agent in charge 
        of a facility;
            (3) describe the timeframes for inspections; and
            (4) detail the areas, equipment, computers, records, data, 
        and samples that are not subject to inspection.

SEC. 303. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6723.>> AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT INSPECTIONS.

    (a) Prohibition.--No inspection of a plant, plant site, or other 
facility or location in the United States shall take place under the 
Convention without the authorization of the United States National 
Authority in accordance with the requirements of this title.
    (b) Authority.--
            (1) Technical secretariat inspection teams.--Any duly 
        designated member of an inspection team of the Technical 
        Secretariat may inspect any plant, plant site, or other facility 
        or location in the United States subject to inspection pursuant 
        to the Convention.
            (2) United states government representatives.--The United 
        States National Authority shall coordinate the designation of 
        employees of the Federal Government to accompany members of an 
        inspection team of the Technical Secretariat and, in doing so, 
        shall ensure that--
                    (A) a special agent of the Federal Bureau of 
                Investigation, as designated by the Federal Bureau of 
                Investigation, accompanies each inspection team visit 
                pursuant to paragraph (1);
                    (B) no employee of the Environmental Protection 
                Agency or the Occupational Safety and Health 
                Administration accompanies any inspection team visit 
                conducted pursuant to paragraph (1); and
                    (C) the number of duly designated representatives 
                shall be kept to the minimum necessary.
            (3) Objections to individuals serving as inspectors.--
                    (A) In general.--In deciding whether to exercise the 
                right of the United States under the Convention to 
                object to an individual serving as an inspector, the 
                President shall give great weight to his reasonable 
                belief that--
                          (i) such individual is or has been a member 
                      of, or a participant in, any group or organization 
                      that has engaged in, or attempted or conspired to 
                      engage in, or aided or abetted in the commission 
                      of, any terrorist act or activity;
                          (ii) such individual has committed any act or 
                      activity which would be a felony under the laws of 
                      the United States; or
                          (iii) the participation of such individual as 
                      a member of an inspection team would pose a risk 
                      to the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-874]]

                      national security or economic well-being of the 
                      United States.
                    (B) Not subject to judicial review.--Any objection 
                by the President to an individual serving as an 
                inspector, whether made pursuant to this section or 
                otherwise, shall not be reviewable in any court.

SEC. 304. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6724.>> PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTIONS.
      (a) Types of Inspections.--Each inspection of a plant, plant site, 
or other facility or location in the United States under the Convention 
shall be conducted in accordance with this section and section 305, 
except where other procedures are provided in a facility agreement 
entered into under section 302.

    (b) Notice.--
            (1) In general.--An inspection referred to in subsection (a) 
        may be made only upon issuance of an actual written notice by 
        the United States National Authority to the owner and to the 
        operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the premises to be 
        inspected.
            (2) Time of Notification.--The notice for a routine 
        inspection shall be submitted to the owner and to the operator, 
        occupant, or agent in charge within six hours of receiving the 
        notification of the inspection from the Technical Secretariat or 
        as soon as possible thereafter. Notice for a challenge 
        inspection shall be provided at any appropriate time determined 
        by the United States National Authority. Notices may be posted 
        prominently at the plant, plant site, or other facility or 
        location if the United States is unable to provide actual 
        written notice to the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the 
        premises.
            (3) Content of notice.--
                    (A) In general.--The notice under paragraph (1) 
                shall include all appropriate information supplied by 
                the Technical Secretariat to the United States National 
                Authority concerning--
                          (i) the type of inspection;
                          (ii) the basis for the selection of the plant, 
                      plant site, or other facility or location for the 
                      type of inspection sought;
                          (iii) the time and date that the inspection 
                      will begin and the period covered by the 
                      inspection; and
                          (iv) the names and titles of the inspectors.
                    (B) Special rule for challenge inspections.--In the 
                case of a challenge inspection pursuant to Article IX of 
                the Convention, the notice shall also include all 
                appropriate evidence or reasons provided by the 
                requesting state party to the Convention for seeking the 
                inspection.
            (4) Separate notices required.--A separate notice shall be 
        provided for each inspection, except that a notice shall not be 
        required for each entry made during the period covered by the 
        inspection.
      (c) Credentials.--The head of the inspection team of the Technical 
Secretariat and the accompanying employees of the Federal government 
shall display appropriate identifying credentials to the owner, 
operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the premises before the 
inspection is commenced.
      (d) Timeframe for Inspections.--Consistent with the provisions of 
the Convention, each inspection shall be commenced and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-875]]

completed with reasonable promptness and shall be conducted at 
reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner.
      (e) Scope.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in a warrant issued 
        under section 305 or a facility agreement entered into under 
        section 302, an inspection conducted under this title may extend 
        to all things within the premises inspected (including records, 
        files, papers, processes, controls, structures and vehicles) 
        related to whether the requirements of the Convention applicable 
        to such premises have been complied with.
            (2) Exception.--Unless required by the Convention, no 
        inspection under this title shall extend to--
                    (A) financial data;
                    (B) sales and marketing data (other than shipment 
                data);
                    (C) pricing data;
                    (D) personnel data;
                    (E) research data;
                    (F) patent data;
                    (G) data maintained for compliance with 
                environmental or occupational health and safety 
                regulations; or
                    (H) personnel and vehicles entering and personnel 
                and personal passenger vehicles exiting the facility.
      (f) Sampling and Safety.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the United States National 
        Authority is authorized to require the provision of samples to a 
        member of the inspection team of the Technical Secretariat in 
        accordance with the provisions of the Convention. The owner or 
        the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises to be 
        inspected shall determine whether the sample shall be taken by 
        representatives of the premises or the inspection team or other 
        individuals present. No sample collected in the United States 
        pursuant to an inspection permitted by this Act may be 
        transferred for analysis to any laboratory outside the territory 
        of the United States.
            (2) Compliance with regulations.--In carrying out their 
        activities, members of the inspection team of the Technical 
        Secretariat and representatives of agencies or departments 
        accompanying the inspection team shall observe safety 
        regulations established at the premises to be inspected, 
        including those for protection of controlled environments within 
        a facility and for personal safety.
      (g) Coordination.--The appropriate representatives of the United 
States, as designated, if present, shall assist the owner and the 
operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises to be inspected in 
interacting with the members of the inspection team of the Technical 
Secretariat.

SEC. 305. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6725.>>  WARRANTS.
      (a) In General.--The United States Government shall seek the 
consent of the owner or the operator, occupant, or agent in charge of 
the premises to be inspected prior to any inspection referred to in 
section 304(a). If consent is obtained, a warrant is not required for 
the inspection. The owner or the operator, occupant, or agent in charge 
of the premises to be inspected may withhold consent for any reason or 
no reason. After providing

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-876]]

notification pursuant to subsection (b), the United States Government 
may seek a search warrant from a United States magistrate judge. 
Proceedings regarding the issuance of a search warrant shall be 
conducted ex parte, unless otherwise requested by the United States 
Government.
      (b) Routine Inspections.--
            (1) Obtaining administrative search warrants.--For any 
        routine inspection conducted on the territory of the United 
        States pursuant to Article VI of the Convention, where consent 
        has been withheld, the United States Government shall first 
        obtain an administrative search warrant from a judge of the 
        United States. The United States Government shall provide to the 
        judge of the United States all appropriate information supplied 
        by the Technical Secretariat to the United States National 
        Authority regarding the basis for the selection of the plant 
        site, plant, or other facility or location for the type of 
        inspection sought. The United States Government shall also 
        provide any other appropriate information available to it 
        relating to the reasonableness of the selection of the plant, 
        plant site, or other facility or location for the inspection.
            (2) Content of affidavits for administrative search 
        warrants.--The judge of the United States shall promptly issue a 
        warrant authorizing the requested inspection upon an affidavit 
        submitted by the United States Government showing that--
                    (A) the Chemical Weapons Convention is in force for 
                the United States;
                    (B) the plant site, plant, or other facility or 
                location sought to be inspected is required to report 
                data under title IV of this Act and is subject to 
                routine inspection under the Convention;
                    (C) the purpose of the inspection is--
                          (i) in the case of any facility owned or 
                      operated by a non-Government entity related to 
                      Schedule 1 chemical agents, to verify that the 
                      facility is not used to produce any Schedule 1 
                      chemical agent except for declared chemicals; 
                      quantities of Schedule 1 chemicals produced, 
                      processed, or consumed are correctly declared and 
                      consistent with needs for the declared purpose; 
                      and Schedule 1 chemicals are not diverted or used 
                      for other purposes;
                          (ii) in the case of any facility related to 
                      Schedule 2 chemical agents, to verify that 
                      activities are in accordance with obligations 
                      under the Convention and consistent with the 
                      information provided in data declarations; and
                          (iii) in the case of any facility related to 
                      Schedule 3 chemical agents and any other chemical 
                      production facility, to verify that the activities 
                      of the facility are consistent with the 
                      information provided in data declarations;
                    (D) the items, documents, and areas to be searched 
                and seized;
                    (E) in the case of a facility related to Schedule 2 
                or Schedule 3 chemical agents or unscheduled discrete 
                organic chemicals, the plant site has not been subject 
                to more than 1 routine inspection in the current 
                calendar

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-877]]

                year, and, in the case of facilities related to Schedule 
                3 chemical agents or unscheduled discrete organic 
                chemicals, the inspection will not cause the number of 
                routine inspections in the United States to exceed 20 in 
                a calendar year;
                    (F) the selection of the site was made in accordance 
                with procedures established under the Convention and, in 
                particular--
                          (i) in the case of any facility owned or 
                      operated by a non-Government entity related to 
                      Schedule 1 chemical agents, the intensity, 
                      duration, timing, and mode of the requested 
                      inspection is based on the risk to the object and 
                      purpose of the Convention
by the quantities of chemical produced, the characteristics of the 
facility and the nature of activities carried out at the facility, and 
the requested inspection, when considered with previous such inspections 
of the facility undertaken in the current calendar year, shall not 
exceed the number reasonably required based on the risk to the object 
and purpose of the Convention as described above;
                          (ii) in the case of any facility related to 
                      Schedule 2 chemical agents, the Technical 
                      Secretariat gave due consideration to the risk to 
                      the object and purpose of the Convention posed by 
                      the relevant chemical, the characteristics of the 
                      plant site and the nature of activities carried 
                      out there, taking into account the respective 
                      facility agreement as well as the results of the 
                      initial inspections and subsequent inspections; 
                      and
                          (iii) in the case of any facility related to 
                      Schedule 3 chemical agents or unscheduled discrete 
                      organic chemicals, the facility was selected 
                      randomly by the Technical Secretariat using 
                      appropriate mechanisms, such as specifically 
                      designed computer software, on the basis of two 
                      weighting factors: (I) equitable geographical 
                      distribution of inspections; and (II) the 
                      information on the declared sites available to the 
                      Technical Secretariat, related to the relevant 
                      chemical, the characteristics of the plant site, 
                      and the nature of activities carried out there;
                    (G) the earliest commencement and latest closing 
                dates and times of the inspection; and
                    (H) the duration of inspection will not exceed time 
                limits specified in the Convention unless agreed by the 
                owner, operator, or agent in charge of the plant.
            (3) Content of warrants.--A warrant issued under paragraph 
        (2) shall specify the same matters required of an affidavit 
        under that paragraph. In addition to the requirements for a 
        warrant issued under this paragraph, each warrant shall contain, 
        if known, the identities of the representatives of the Technical 
        Secretariat conducting the inspection and the observers of the 
        inspection and, if applicable, the identities of the 
        representatives of agencies or departments of the United States 
        accompanying those representatives.
            (4) Challenge inspections.--
                    (A) Criminal search warrant.--For any challenge 
                inspection conducted on the territory of the United 
                States

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-878]]

                pursuant to Article IX of the Chemical Weapons 
                Convention, where consent has been withheld, the United 
                States Government shall first obtain from a judge of the 
                United States a criminal search warrant based upon 
                probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and 
                describing with particularity the place to be searched 
                and the person or things to be seized.
                    (B) Information provided.--The United States 
                Government shall provide to the judge of the United 
                States--
                          (i) all appropriate information supplied by 
                      the Technical Secretariat to the United States 
                      National Authority regarding the basis for the 
                      selection of the plant site, plant, or other 
                      facility or location for the type of inspection 
                      sought;
                          (ii) any other appropriate information 
                      relating to the reasonableness of the selection of 
                      the plant, plant site, or other facility or 
                      location for the inspection;
                          (iii) information concerning--
                                    (I) the duration and scope of the 
                                inspection;
                                    (II) areas to be inspected;
                                    (III) records and data to be 
                                reviewed; and
                                    (IV) samples to be taken;
                          (iv) appropriate evidence or reasons provided 
                      by the requesting state party for the inspection;
                          (v) any other evidence showing probable cause 
                      to believe that a violation of this Act has 
                      occurred or is occurring; and
                          (vi) the identities of the representatives of 
                      the Technical Secretariat on the inspection team 
                      and the Federal Government employees accompanying 
                      the inspection team.
                    (C) Content of warrant.--The warrant shall 
                specify--
                          (i) the type of inspection authorized;
                          (ii) the purpose of the inspection;
                          (iii) the type of plant site, plant, or other 
                      facility or location to be inspected;
                          (iv) the areas of the plant site, plant, or 
                      other facility or location to be inspected;
                          (v) the items, documents, data, equipment, and 
                      computers that may be inspected or seized;
                          (vi) samples that may be taken;
                          (vii) the earliest commencement and latest 
                      concluding dates and times of the inspection; and
                          (viii) the identities of the representatives 
                      of the Technical Secretariat on the inspection 
                      teams and the Federal Government employees 
                      accompanying the inspection team.

SEC. 306. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6726.>>  PROHIBITED ACTS RELATING TO 
            INSPECTIONS.
      It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to fail or refuse to 
permit entry or inspection, or to disrupt, delay, or otherwise impede an 
inspection, authorized by this Act.

SEC. 307. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6727.>> NATIONAL SECURITY EXCEPTION.
      Consistent with the objective of eliminating chemical weapons, the 
President may deny a request to inspect any facility in the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-879]]

United States in cases where the President determines that the 
inspection may pose a threat to the national security interests of the 
United States.

SEC. 308. PROTECTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS OF CONTRACTORS.

      (a) The Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 39. <<NOTE: 41 USC 436.>> PROTECTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS OF 
            CONTRACTORS.
      ``(a) Prohibition.--A contractor may not be required, as a 
condition for entering into a contract with the Federal Government, to 
waive any right under the Constitution for any purpose related to 
Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1997 or the Chemical 
Weapons Convention (as defined in section 3 of such Act).
      ``(b) Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed 
to prohibit an executive agency from including in a contract a clause 
that requires the contractor to permit inspections for the purpose of 
ensuring that the contractor is performing the contract in accordance 
with the provisions of the contract.''.
      (b) The table of contents in section 1(b) of such Act is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 39. Protection of constitutional rights of contractors.''.

SEC. 309. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6728.>>  ANNUAL REPORT ON INSPECTIONS.
      (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
submit a report in classified and unclassified form to the appropriate 
congressional committees on inspections made under the Convention during 
the preceding year.
      (b) Content of Reports.--Each report shall contain the following 
information for the reporting period:
            (1) The name of each company or entity subject to the 
        jurisdiction of the United States reporting data pursuant to 
        title IV of this Act.
            (2) The number of inspections under the Convention conducted 
        on the territory of the United States.
            (3) The number and identity of inspectors conducting any 
        inspection described in paragraph (2) and the number of 
        inspectors barred from inspection by the United States.
            (4) The cost to the United States for each inspection 
        described in paragraph (2).
            (5) The total costs borne by United States business firms in 
        the course of inspections described in paragraph (2).
            (6) A description of the circumstances surrounding 
        inspections described in paragraph (2), including instances of 
        possible industrial espionage and misconduct of inspectors.
            (7) The identity of parties claiming loss of trade secrets, 
        the circumstances surrounding those losses, and the efforts 
        taken by the United States Government to redress those losses.
            (8) A description of instances where inspections under the 
        Convention outside the United States have been disrupted or 
        delayed.
      (c) Definition.--The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
means the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-880]]

the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on 
International Relations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 310. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6729.>>  UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE IN 
            INSPECTIONS AT PRIVATE FACILITIES.
      (a) Assistance in Preparation for Inspections.--At the request of 
an owner of a facility not owned or operated by the United States 
Government, or contracted for use by or for the United States 
Government, the Secretary of Defense may assist the facility to prepare 
the facility for possible inspections pursuant to the Convention.

    (b) Reimbursement Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        owner of a facility provided assistance under subsection (a) 
        shall reimburse the Secretary for the costs incurred by the 
        Secretary in providing the assistance.
            (2) Exception.--In the case of assistance provided under 
        subsection (a) to a facility owned by a person described in 
        subsection (c), the United States National Authority shall 
        reimburse the Secretary for the costs incurred by the Secretary 
        in providing the assistance.

    (c) Owners Covered by United States National Authority 
Reimbursements.--Subsection (b)(2) applies in the case of assistance 
provided to the following:
            (1) Small business concerns.--A small business concern as 
        defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act.
            (2) Domestic producers of schedule 3 or unscheduled discrete 
        organic chemicals.--Any person located in the United States 
        that--
                    (A) does not possess, produce, process, consume, 
                import, or export any Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 chemical; 
                and
                    (B) in the calendar year preceding the year in which 
                the assistance is to be provided, produced--
                          (i) more than 30 metric tons of Schedule 3 or 
                      unscheduled discrete organic chemicals that 
                      contain phosphorous, sulfur, or fluorine; or
                          (ii) more than 200 metric tons of unscheduled 
                      discrete organic chemicals.

                            TITLE IV--REPORTS

SEC. 401. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6741.>>  REPORTS REQUIRED BY THE UNITED STATES 
            NATIONAL AUTHORITY.

    (a) Regulations on Recordkeeping.--
            (1) Requirements.--The United States National Authority 
        shall ensure that regulations are prescribed that require each 
        person located in the United States who produces, processes, 
        consumes, exports, or imports, or proposes to produce, process, 
        consume, export, or import, a chemical substance that is subject 
        to the Convention to--
                    (A) maintain and permit access to records related to 
                that production, processing, consumption, export, or 
                import of such substance; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-881]]

                    (B) submit to the Director of the United States 
                National Authority such reports as the United States 
                National Authority may reasonably require to provide to 
                the Organization, pursuant to subparagraph 1(a) of the 
                Annex on Confidentiality of the Convention, the minimum 
                amount of information and data necessary for the timely 
                and efficient conduct by the Organization of its 
                responsibilities under the Convention.
            (2) Rulemaking.--The Director of the United States National 
        Authority shall ensure that regulations pursuant to this section 
        are prescribed expeditiously.

    (b) Coordination.--
            (1) Avoidance of duplication.--To the extent feasible, the 
        United States Government shall not require the submission of any 
        report that is unnecessary or duplicative of any report required 
        by or under any other law. The head of each Federal agency shall 
        coordinate the actions of that agency with the heads of the 
        other Federal agencies in order to avoid the imposition of 
        duplicative reporting requirements under this Act or any other 
        law.
            (2) Definition.--As used in paragraph (1), the term 
        ``Federal agency'' has the meaning given the term ``agency'' in 
        section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 402. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6742.>> PROHIBITION RELATING TO LOW 
            CONCENTRATIONS OF SCHEDULE 2 AND 3 CHEMICALS.

    (a) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
no person located in the United States shall be required to report on, 
or to submit to, any routine inspection conducted for the purpose of 
verifying the production, possession, consumption, exportation, 
importation, or proposed production, possession, consumption, 
exportation, or importation of any substance that contains less than--
            (1) 10 percent concentration of a Schedule 2 chemical; or
            (2) 80 percent concentration of a Schedule 3 chemical.

    (b) Standard for Measurement of Concentration.--The percent 
concentration of a chemical in a substance shall be measured on the 
basis of volume or total weight, which measurement yields the lesser 
percent.

SEC. 403. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6743.>> PROHIBITION RELATING TO UNSCHEDULED 
            DISCRETE ORGANIC CHEMICALS AND COINCIDENTAL BYPRODUCTS IN 
            WASTE STREAMS.

    (a) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
no person located in the United States shall be required to report on, 
or to submit to, any routine inspection conducted for the purpose of 
verifying the production, possession, consumption, exportation, 
importation, or proposed production, possession, consumption, 
exportation, or importation of any substance that is--
            (1) an unscheduled discrete organic chemical; and
            (2) a coincidental byproduct of a manufacturing or 
        production process that is not isolated or captured for use or 
        sale during the process and is routed to, or escapes, from the 
        waste stream of a stack, incinerator, or wastewater treatment 
        system or any other waste stream.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-882]]

SEC. 404. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6744.>>  CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.

    (a) Freedom of Information Act Exemption for Certain Convention 
Information.--Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c), any 
confidential business information, as defined in section 103(g), 
reported to, or otherwise acquired by, the United States Government 
under this Act or under the Convention shall not be disclosed under 
section 552(a) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) Information for the technical secretariat.--Information 
        shall be disclosed or otherwise provided to the Technical 
        Secretariat or other states parties to the Chemical Weapons 
        Convention in accordance with the Convention, in particular, the 
        provisions of the Annex on the Protection of Confidential 
        Information.
            (2) Information for congress.--Information shall be made 
        available to any committee or subcommittee of Congress with 
        appropriate jurisdiction upon the written request of the 
        chairman or ranking minority member of such committee or 
        subcommittee, except that no such committee or subcommittee, and 
        no member and no staff member of such committee or subcommittee, 
        shall disclose such information or material except as otherwise 
        required or authorized by law.
            (3) Information for enforcement actions.--Information shall 
        be disclosed to other Federal agencies for enforcement of this 
        Act or any other law, and shall be disclosed or otherwise 
        provided when relevant in any proceeding under this Act or any 
        other law, except that disclosure or provision in such a 
        proceeding shall be made in such manner as to preserve 
        confidentiality to the extent practicable without impairing the 
        proceeding.

    (c) Information Disclosed in the National Interest.--
            (1) Authority.--The United States Government shall disclose 
        any information reported to, or otherwise required by the United 
        States Government under this Act or the Convention, including 
        categories of such information, that it determines is in the 
        national interest to disclose and may specify the form in which 
        such information is to be disclosed.
            (2) Notice of disclosure.--
                    (A) Requirement.--If any Department or agency of the 
                United States Government proposes pursuant to paragraph 
                (1) to publish or disclose or otherwise provide 
                information exempt from disclosure under subsection (a), 
                the United States National Authority shall, unless 
                contrary to national security or law enforcement needs, 
                provide notice of intent to disclose the information--
                          (i) to the person that submitted such 
                      information; and
                          (ii) in the case of information about a person 
                      received from another source, to the person to 
                      whom that information pertains.

                The information may not be disclosed until the 
                expiration of 30 days after notice under this paragraph 
                has been provided.
                    (B) Proceedings on objections.--In the event that 
                the person to which the information pertains objects to 
                the disclosure, the agency shall promptly review the 
                grounds for each objection of the person and shall 
                afford

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-883]]

                the objecting person a hearing for the purpose of 
                presenting the objections to the disclosure. Not later 
                than 10 days before the scheduled or rescheduled date 
                for the disclosure, the United States National Authority 
                shall notify such person regarding whether such 
                disclosure will occur notwithstanding the objections.

    (d) Criminal Penalty for Wrongful Disclosure.--Any officer or 
employee of the United States, and any former officer or employee of the 
United States, who by reason of such employment or official position has 
obtained possession of, or has access to, information the disclosure or 
other provision of which is prohibited by subsection (a), and who, 
knowing that disclosure or provision of such information is prohibited 
by such subsection, willfully discloses or otherwise provides the 
information in any manner to any person (including any person located 
outside the territory of the United States) not authorized to receive 
it, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for 
not more than five years, or both.
    (e) Criminal Forfeiture.--The property of any person who violates 
subsection (d) shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States in 
the same manner and to the same extent as is provided in section 229C of 
title 18, United States Code, as added by this Act.
    (f) International Inspectors.--The provisions of this section shall 
also apply to employees of the Technical Secretariat.

SEC. 405. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6745.>> RECORDKEEPING VIOLATIONS.

    It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to fail or refuse--
            (1) to establish or maintain any record required by this Act 
        or any regulation prescribed under this Act;
            (2) to submit any report, notice, or other information to 
        the United States Government in accordance with this Act or any 
        regulation prescribed under this Act; or
            (3) to permit access to or copying of any record that is 
        exempt from disclosure under this Act or any regulation 
        prescribed under this Act.

                          TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT

SEC. 501. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6761.>> PENALTIES.

    (a) Civil.--
            (1) Penalty amounts.--
                    (A) Prohibited acts relating to inspections.--Any 
                person that is determined, in accordance with paragraph 
                (2), to have violated section 306 of this Act shall be 
                required by order to pay a civil penalty in an amount 
                not to exceed $25,000 for each such violation. For 
                purposes of this paragraph, each day such a violation of 
                section 306 continues shall constitute a separate 
                violation of that section.
                    (B) Recordkeeping violations.--Any person that is 
                determined, in accordance with paragraph (2), to have 
                violated section 405 of this Act shall be required by 
                order to pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed 
                $5,000 for each such violation.
            (2) Hearing.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-884]]

                    (A) In general.--Before imposing an order described 
                in paragraph (1) against a person under this subsection 
                for a violation of section 306 or 405, the Secretary of 
                State shall provide the person or entity with notice 
                and, upon request made within 15 days of the date of the 
                notice, a hearing respecting the violation.
                    (B) Conduct of hearing.--Any hearing so requested 
                shall be conducted before an administrative law judge. 
                The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the 
                requirements of section 554 of title 5, United States 
                Code. If no hearing is so requested, the Secretary of 
                State's imposition of the order shall constitute a final 
                and unappealable order.
                    (C) Issuance of orders.--If the administrative law 
                judge determines, upon the preponderance of the evidence 
                received, that a person or entity named in the complaint 
                has violated section 306 or 405, the administrative law 
                judge shall state his findings of fact and issue and 
                cause to be served on such person or entity an order 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (D) Factors for determination of penalty amounts.--
                In determining the amount of any civil penalty, the 
                administrative law judge shall take into account the 
                nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the 
                violation or violations and, with respect to the 
                violator, the ability to pay, effect on ability to 
                continue to do business, any history of prior such 
                violations, the degree of culpability, the existence of 
                an internal compliance program, and such other matters 
                as justice may require.
            (3) Administrative appellate review.--The decision and order 
        of an administrative law judge shall become the final agency 
        decision and order of the head of the United States National 
        Authority unless, within 30 days, the head of the United States 
        National Authority modifies or vacates the decision and order, 
        with or without conditions, in which case the decision and order 
        of the head of the United States National Authority shall become 
        a final order under this subsection.
            (4) Offsets.--The amount of the civil penalty under a final 
        order of the United States National Authority may be deducted 
        from any sums owed by the United States to the person.
            (5) Judicial review.--A person adversely affected by a final 
        order respecting an assessment may, within 30 days after the 
        date the final order is issued, file a petition in the Court of 
        Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit or for any other circuit in which the 
person resides or transacts business.
            (6) Enforcement of orders.--If a person fails to comply with 
        a final order issued under this subsection against the person or 
        entity--
                    (A) after the order making the assessment has become 
                a final order and if such person does not file a 
                petition for judicial review of the order in accordance 
                with paragraph (5), or
                    (B) after a court in an action brought under 
                paragraph (5) has entered a final judgment in favor of 
                the United States National Authority,


[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-885]]


        the Secretary of State shall file a suit to seek compliance with 
        the order in any appropriate district court of the United 
        States, plus interest at currently prevailing rates calculated 
        from the date of expiration of the 30-day period referred to in 
        paragraph (5) or the date of such final judgment, as the case 
        may be. In any such suit, the validity and appropriateness of 
        the final order shall not be subject to review.
            (b) Criminal.--Any person who knowingly violates any 
        provision of section 306 or 405 of this Act, shall, in addition 
        to or in lieu of any civil penalty which may be imposed under 
        subsection (a) for such violation, be fined under title 18, 
        United States Code, imprisoned for not more than one year, or 
        both.

SEC. 502. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6762.>> SPECIFIC ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) Jurisdiction.--The district courts of the United States shall 
have jurisdiction over civil actions to--
            (1) restrain any violation of section 306 or 405 of this 
        Act; and
            (2) compel the taking of any action required by or under 
        this Act or the Convention.

    (b) Civil Actions.--
            (1) In general.--A civil action described in subsection (a) 
        may be brought--
                    (A) in the case of a civil action described in 
                subsection (a)(1), in the United States district court 
                for the judicial district in which any act, omission, or 
                transaction constituting a violation of section 306 or 
                405 occurred or in which the defendant is found or 
                transacts business; or
                    (B) in the case of a civil action described in 
                subsection (a)(2), in the United States district court 
                for the judicial district in which the defendant is 
                found or transacts business.
            (2) Service of process.--In any such civil action process 
        may be served on a defendant wherever the defendant may reside 
        or may be found, whether the defendant resides or may be found 
        within the United States or elsewhere.

SEC. 503. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6763.>> EXPEDITED JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Civil Action.--Any person or entity subject to a search under 
this Act may file a civil action challenging the constitutionality of 
any provision of this Act. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
during the full calendar year of, and the two full calendar years 
following, the enactment of this Act, the district court shall accord 
such a case a priority in its disposition ahead of all other civil 
actions except for actions challenging the legality and conditions of 
confinement.
    (b) En Banc Review.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
during the full calendar year of, and the two full calendar years 
following, the enactment of this Act, any appeal from a final order 
entered by a district court in an action brought under subsection (a) 
shall be heard promptly by the full Court of Appeals sitting en banc.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-886]]

                   TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 601. REPEAL.

    Section 808 of the Department of Defense Appropriation Authorization 
Act, 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1520; relating to the use of human subjects for the 
testing of chemical or biological agents) is repealed.

SEC. 602. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6771.>> PROHIBITION.

    (a) In General.--Neither the Secretary of Defense nor any other 
officer or employee of the United States may, directly or by contract--
            (1) conduct any test or experiment involving the use of any 
        chemical or biological agent on a civilian population; or
            (2) use human subjects for the testing of chemical or 
        biological agents.

    (b) Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) may be construed to 
prohibit actions carried out for purposes not prohibited by this Act (as 
defined in section 3(8)).
    (c) Biological Agent Defined.--In this section, the term 
``biological agent'' means any micro-organism (including bacteria, 
viruses, fungi, rickettsiae or protozoa), pathogen, or infectious 
substance, or any naturally occurring, bio-engineered or synthesized 
component of any such micro-organism, pathogen, or infectious substance, 
whatever its origin or method of production, capable of causing--
            (1) death, disease, or other biological malfunction in a 
        human, an animal, a plant, or another living organism;
            (2) deterioration of food, water, equipment, supplies, or 
        materials of any kind; or
            (3) deleterious alteration of the environment.

SEC. 603. BANKRUPTCY ACTIONS.

    Section 362(b) of title 11, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) under paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (6) of subsection 
        (a) of this section, of the commencement or continuation of an 
        action or proceeding by a governmental unit or any organization 
        exercising authority under the Convention on the Prohibition of 
        the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical 
        Weapons and on Their Destruction, opened for signature on 
        January 13, 1993, to enforce such governmental unit's or 
        organization's police and regulatory power, including the 
        enforcement of a judgment other than a money judgment, obtained 
        in an action or proceeding by the governmental unit to enforce 
        such governmental unit's or organization's police or regulatory 
        power;''.

      <<NOTE: Tax and Trade Relief Extension Act of 1998. 26 USC 1 
note.>> DIVISION J--REVENUES AND MEDICARE

SEC. 1000. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF 1986 CODE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This division may be cited as the ``Tax and Trade 
Relief Extension Act of 1998''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-887]]

    (b) Amendment of 1986 Code.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
whenever in this division an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms 
of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (c) Table of Contents.--

                    DIVISION J--REVENUES AND MEDICARE

Sec. 1000. Short title; amendment of 1986 Code; table of contents.

   TITLE I--EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING PROVISIONS

                       Subtitle A--Tax Provisions

Sec. 1001. Research credit.
Sec. 1002. Work opportunity credit.
Sec. 1003. Welfare-to-work credit.
Sec. 1004. Contributions of stock to private foundations; expanded 
           public inspection of private foundations' annual returns.
Sec. 1005. Subpart F exemption for active financing income.
Sec. 1006. Disclosure of return information on income contingent student 
           loans.

                      Subtitle B--Trade Provisions

Sec. 1011. Extension of duty-free treatment under Generalized System of 
           Preferences.
Sec. 1012. Trade adjustment assistance.

                     TITLE II--OTHER TAX PROVISIONS

             Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Individuals

Sec. 2001. Nonrefundable personal credits fully allowed against regular 
           tax liability during 1998.
Sec. 2002. 100 percent deduction for health insurance costs of self-
           employed individuals.
Sec. 2003. Modification of estimated tax safe harbors.

               Subtitle B--Provisions Relating to Farmers

Sec. 2011. Income averaging for farmers made permanent.
Sec. 2012. Production flexibility contract payments.
Sec. 2013. 5-year net operating loss carryback for farming losses.

                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 2021. Increase in volume cap on private activity bonds.
Sec. 2022. Depreciation study.
Sec. 2023. Exemption for students employed by State schools, colleges, 
           or universities.

                       TITLE III--REVENUE OFFSETS

Sec. 3001. Treatment of certain deductible liquidating distributions of 
           regulated investment companies and real estate investment 
           trusts.
Sec. 3002. Inclusion of rotavirus gastroenteritis as a taxable vaccine.
Sec. 3003. Clarification and expansion of mathematical error assessment 
           procedures.
Sec. 3004. Clarification of definition of specified liability loss.

                     TITLE IV--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

Sec. 4001. Definitions; coordination with other subtitles.
Sec. 4002. Amendments related to Internal Revenue Service Restructuring 
           and Reform Act of 1998.
Sec. 4003. Amendments related to Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.
Sec. 4004. Amendments related to Tax Reform Act of 1984.
Sec. 4005. Amendments related to Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
Sec. 4006. Other amendments.

                  TITLE V--MEDICARE-RELATED PROVISIONS

                         Subtitle A--Home Health

Sec. 5101. Increase in per beneficiary limits and per visit payment 
           limits for payment for home health services.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-888]]

              Subtitle B--Other Medicare-Related Provisions

Sec. 5201. Authorization of additional exceptions to imposition of 
           penalties for providing inducements to beneficiaries.
Sec. 5202. Expansion of membership of MedPAC to 17.

                       Subtitle C--Revenue Offsets

Sec. 5301. Tax treatment of cash option for qualified prizes.

   TITLE I--EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING PROVISIONS

                       Subtitle A--Tax Provisions

SEC. 1001. RESEARCH CREDIT.

    (a) Temporary Extension.--Paragraph (1) of section 41(h) (relating 
to termination) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``June 30, 1998'' and inserting ``June 30, 
        1999'';
            (2) by striking ``24-month'' and inserting ``36-month''; and
            (3) by striking ``24 months'' and inserting ``36 months''.

    (b) Technical Amendment.--Subparagraph (D) of section 45C(b)(1) is 
amended by striking ``June 30, 1998'' and inserting ``June 30, 1999''.
     <<NOTE: 26 USC 41 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred after June 30, 
1998.

SEC. 1002. WORK OPPORTUNITY CREDIT.

    (a) Temporary Extension.--Subparagraph (B) of section 51(c)(4) 
(relating to termination) is amended by striking ``June 30, 1998'' and 
inserting ``June 30, 1999''.
     <<NOTE: 26 USC 51 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to individuals who begin work for the 
employer after June 30, 1998.

SEC. 1003. WELFARE-TO-WORK CREDIT.

    Subsection (f) of section 51A (relating to termination) is amended 
by striking ``April 30, 1999'' and inserting ``June 30, 1999''.

SEC. 1004. CONTRIBUTIONS OF STOCK TO PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS; EXPANDED 
            PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS' ANNUAL RETURNS.

    (a) Special Rule for Contributions of Stock Made Permanent.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (5) of section 170(e) is amended 
        by striking subparagraph (D) (relating to termination).
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 170 note.>> (2) Effective date.--The 
        amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply to contributions 
        made after June 30, 1998.

    (b) Expanded Public Inspection of Private Foundations' Annual 
Returns, Etc.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6104 (relating to publicity of 
        information required from certain exempt organizations and 
        certain trusts) is amended by striking subsections (d) and (e) 
        and inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Public Inspection of Certain Annual Returns and Applications 
for Exemption.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of an organization described 
        in subsection (c) or (d) of section 501 and exempt from taxation 
        under section 501(a)--
                    ``(A) a copy of--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-889]]

                          ``(i) the annual return filed under section 
                      6033 (relating to returns by exempt organizations) 
                      by such organization, and
                          ``(ii) if the organization filed an 
                      application for recognition of exemption under 
                      section 501, the exempt status application 
                      materials of such organization,

                shall be made available by such organization for 
                inspection during regular business hours by any 
                individual at the principal office of such organization 
                and, if such organization regularly maintains 1 or more 
                regional or district offices having 3 or more employees, 
                at each such regional or district office, and
                    ``(B) upon request of an individual made at such 
                principal office or such a regional or district office, 
                a copy of such annual return and exempt status 
                application materials shall be provided to such 
                individual without charge other than a reasonable fee 
                for any reproduction and mailing costs.

        The request described in subparagraph (B) must be made in person 
        or in writing. If such request is made in person, such copy 
        shall be provided immediately and, if made in writing, shall be 
        provided within 30 days.
            ``(2) 3-year limitation on inspection of returns.--Paragraph 
        (1) shall apply to an annual return filed under section 6033 
        only during the 3-year period beginning on the last day 
        prescribed for filing such return (determined with regard to any 
        extension of time for filing).
            ``(3) Exceptions from disclosure requirement.--
                    ``(A) Nondisclosure of contributors, etc.--In the 
                case of an organization which is not a private 
                foundation (within the meaning of section 509(a)), 
                paragraph (1) shall not require the disclosure of the 
                name or address of any contributor to the organization. 
                In the case of an organization described in section 
                501(d), paragraph (1) shall not require the disclosure 
                of the copies referred to in section 6031(b) with 
                respect to such organization.
                    ``(B) Nondisclosure of certain other information.--
                Paragraph (1) shall not require the disclosure of any 
                information if the Secretary withheld such information 
                from public inspection under subsection (a)(1)(D).
            ``(4) Limitation on providing copies.--Paragraph (1)(B) 
        shall not apply to any request if, in accordance with 
        regulations promulgated by the Secretary, the organization has 
        made the requested documents widely available, or the Secretary 
        determines, upon application by an organization, that such 
        request is part of a harassment campaign and that compliance 
        with such request is not in the public interest.
            ``(5) Exempt status application materials.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the term `exempt status application materials' 
        means the application for recognition of exemption under section 
        501 and any papers submitted in support of such application and 
        any letter or other document issued by the Internal Revenue 
        Service with respect to such application.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Subsection (c) of section 6033 is amended by 
                adding ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1), by striking 
                paragraph (2), and by redesignating paragraph (3) as 
                paragraph (2).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-890]]

                    (B) Subparagraph (C) of section 6652(c)(1) is 
                amended by striking ``subsection (d) or (e)(1) of 
                section 6104 (relating to public inspection of annual 
                returns)'' and inserting ``section 6104(d) with respect 
                to any annual return''.
                    (C) Subparagraph (D) of section 6652(c)(1) is 
                amended by striking ``section 6104(e)(2) (relating to 
                public inspection of applications for exemption)'' and 
                inserting ``section 6104(d) with respect to any exempt 
                status application materials (as defined in such 
                section)''.
                    (D) Section 6685 is amended by striking ``or (e)''.
                    (E) Section 7207 is amended by striking ``or (e)''.
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 6104 note.>> (3) Effective date.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the amendments made by this subsection shall apply 
                to requests made after the later of December 31, 1998, 
                or the 60th day after the Secretary of the Treasury 
                first issues the regulations referred to in section 
                6104(d)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
                amended by this section.
                    (B) Publication of annual returns.--Section 6104(d) 
                of such Code, as in effect before the amendments made by 
                this subsection, shall not apply to any return the due 
                date for which is after the date such amendments take 
                effect under subparagraph (A).

SEC. 1005. SUBPART F EXEMPTION FOR ACTIVE FINANCING INCOME.

    (a) Income Derived From Banking, Financing, or Similar Businesses.--
Section 954(h) (relating to income derived in the active conduct of 
banking, financing, or similar businesses) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(h) Special Rule for Income Derived in the Active Conduct of 
Banking, Financing, or Similar Businesses.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (c)(1), 
        foreign personal holding company income shall not include 
        qualified banking or financing income of an eligible controlled 
        foreign corporation.
            ``(2) Eligible controlled foreign corporation.--For purposes 
        of this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `eligible controlled 
                foreign corporation' means a controlled foreign 
                corporation which--
                          ``(i) is predominantly engaged in the active 
                      conduct of a banking, financing, or similar 
                      business, and
                          ``(ii) conducts substantial activity with 
                      respect to such business.
                    ``(B) Predominantly engaged.--A controlled foreign 
                corporation shall be treated as predominantly engaged in 
                the active conduct of a banking, financing, or similar 
                business if--
                          ``(i) more than 70 percent of the gross income 
                      of the controlled foreign corporation is derived 
                      directly from the active and regular conduct of a 
                      lending or finance business from transactions with 
                      customers which are not related persons,
                          ``(ii) it is engaged in the active conduct of 
                      a banking business and is an institution licensed 
                      to do business as a bank in the United States (or 
                      is any other

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-891]]

                      corporation not so licensed which is specified by 
                      the Secretary in regulations), or
                          ``(iii) it is engaged in the active conduct of 
                      a securities business and is registered as a 
                      securities broker or dealer under section 15(a) of 
                      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or is 
                      registered as a Government securities broker or 
                      dealer under section 15C(a) of such Act (or is any 
                      other corporation not so registered which is 
                      specified by the Secretary in regulations).
            ``(3) Qualified banking or financing income.--For purposes 
        of this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified banking or 
                financing income' means income of an eligible controlled 
                foreign corporation which--
                          ``(i) is derived in the active conduct of a 
                      banking, financing, or similar business by--
                                    ``(I) such eligible controlled 
                                foreign corporation, or
                                    ``(II) a qualified business unit of 
                                such eligible controlled foreign 
                                corporation,
                          ``(ii) is derived from one or more 
                      transactions--
                                    ``(I) with customers located in a 
                                country other than the United States, 
                                and
                                    ``(II) substantially all of the 
                                activities in connection with which are 
                                conducted directly by the corporation or 
                                unit in its home country, and
                          ``(iii) is treated as earned by such 
                      corporation or unit in its home country for 
                      purposes of such country's tax laws.
                    ``(B) Limitation on nonbanking and nonsecurities 
                businesses.--No income of an eligible controlled foreign 
                corporation not described in clause (ii) or (iii) of 
                paragraph (2)(B) (or of a qualified business unit of 
                such corporation) shall be treated as qualified banking 
                or financing income unless more than 30 percent of such 
                corporation's or unit's gross income is derived directly 
                from the active and regular conduct of a lending or 
                finance business from transactions with customers which 
                are not related persons and which are located within 
                such corporation's or unit's home country.
                    ``(C) Substantial activity requirement for cross 
                border income.--The term `qualified banking or financing 
                income' shall not include income derived from 1 or more 
                transactions with customers located in a country other 
                than the home country of the eligible controlled foreign 
                corporation or a qualified business unit of such 
                corporation unless such corporation or unit conducts 
                substantial activity with respect to a banking, 
                financing, or similar business in its home country.
                    ``(D) Determinations made separately.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the qualified banking or financing 
                income of an eligible controlled foreign corporation and 
                each qualified business unit of such corporation shall 
                be determined separately for such corporation and each 
                such unit by taking into account--
                          ``(i) in the case of the eligible controlled 
                      foreign corporation, only items of income, 
                      deduction, gain, or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-892]]

                      loss and activities of such corporation not 
                      properly allocable or attributable to any 
                      qualified business unit of such corporation, and
                          ``(ii) in the case of a qualified business 
                      unit, only items of income, deduction, gain, or 
                      loss and activities properly allocable or 
                      attributable to such unit.
            ``(4) Lending or finance business.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `lending or finance business' means the 
        business of--
                    ``(A) making loans,
                    ``(B) purchasing or discounting accounts receivable, 
                notes, or installment obligations,
                    ``(C) engaging in leasing (including entering into 
                leases and purchasing, servicing, and disposing of 
                leases and leased assets),
                    ``(D) issuing letters of credit or providing 
                guarantees,
                    ``(E) providing charge and credit card services, or
                    ``(F) rendering services or making facilities 
                available in connection with activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (E) carried on by--
                          ``(i) the corporation (or qualified business 
                      unit) rendering services or making facilities 
                      available, or
                          ``(ii) another corporation (or qualified 
                      business unit of a corporation) which is a member 
                      of the same affiliated group (as defined in 
                      section 1504, but determined without regard to 
                      section 1504(b)(3)).
            ``(5) Other definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
                    ``(A) Customer.--The term `customer' means, with 
                respect to any controlled foreign corporation or 
                qualified business unit, any person which has a customer 
                relationship with such corporation or unit and which is 
                acting in its capacity as such.
                    ``(B) Home country.--Except as provided in 
                regulations--
                          ``(i) Controlled foreign corporation.--The 
                      term `home country' means, with respect to any 
                      controlled foreign corporation, the country under 
                      the laws of which the corporation was created or 
                      organized.
                          ``(ii) Qualified business unit.--The term 
                      `home country' means, with respect to any 
                      qualified business unit, the
country in which such unit maintains its principal office.
                    ``(C) Located.--The determination of where a 
                customer is located shall be made under rules prescribed 
                by the Secretary.
                    ``(D) Qualified business unit.--The term `qualified 
                business unit' has the meaning given such term by 
                section 989(a).
                    ``(E) Related person.--The term `related person' has 
                the meaning given such term by subsection (d)(3).
            ``(6) Coordination with exception for dealers.--Paragraph 
        (1) shall not apply to income described in subsection 
        (c)(2)(C)(ii) of a dealer in securities (within the meaning of 
        section 475) which is an eligible controlled foreign corporation 
        described in paragraph (2)(B)(iii).
            ``(7) Anti-abuse rules.--For purposes of applying this 
        subsection and subsection (c)(2)(C)(ii)--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-893]]

                    ``(A) there shall be disregarded any item of income, 
                gain, loss, or deduction with respect to any transaction 
                or series of transactions one of the principal purposes 
                of which is qualifying income or gain for the exclusion 
                under this section, including any transaction or series 
                of transactions a principal purpose of which is the 
                acceleration or deferral of any item in order to claim 
                the benefits of such exclusion through the application 
                of this subsection,
                    ``(B) there shall be disregarded any item of income, 
                gain, loss, or deduction of an entity which is not 
                engaged in regular and continuous transactions with 
                customers which are not related persons,
                    ``(C) there shall be disregarded any item of income, 
                gain, loss, or deduction with respect to any transaction 
                or series of transactions utilizing, or doing business 
                with--
                          ``(i) one or more entities in order to satisfy 
                      any home country requirement under this 
                      subsection, or
                          ``(ii) a special purpose entity or 
                      arrangement, including a securitization, 
                      financing, or similar entity or arrangement,
                if one of the principal purposes of such transaction or 
                series of transactions is qualifying income or gain for 
                the exclusion under this subsection, and
                    ``(D) a related person, an officer, a director, or 
                an employee with respect to any controlled foreign 
                corporation (or qualified business unit) which would 
                otherwise be treated as a customer of such corporation 
                or unit with respect to any transaction shall not be so 
                treated if a principal purpose of such transaction is to 
                satisfy any requirement of this subsection.
            ``(8) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
        regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
        purposes of this subsection, subsection (c)(1)(B)(i), subsection 
        (c)(2)(C)(ii), and the last sentence of subsection (e)(2).
            ``(9) Application.--This subsection, subsection 
        (c)(2)(C)(ii), and the last sentence of subsection (e)(2) shall 
        apply only to the first taxable year of a foreign corporation 
        beginning after December 31, 1998, and before January 1, 2000, 
        and to taxable years of United States shareholders with or 
        within which such taxable year of such foreign corporation 
        ends.''.

    (b) Income Derived From Insurance Business.--
            (1) Income attributable to issuance or reinsurance.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 953(a) (defining insurance 
                income) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) Insurance Income.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of section 952(a)(1), the 
        term `insurance income' means any income which--
                    ``(A) is attributable to the issuing (or reinsuring) 
                of an insurance or annuity contract, and
                    ``(B) would (subject to the modifications provided 
                by subsection (b)) be taxed under subchapter L of this 
                chapter if such income were the income of a domestic 
                insurance company.
            ``(2) Exception.--Such term shall not include any exempt 
        insurance income (as defined in subsection (e)).''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-894]]

                    (B) Exempt insurance income.--Section 953 (relating 
                to insurance income) is amended by adding at the end the 
                following new subsection:

    ``(e) Exempt Insurance Income.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Exempt insurance income defined.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `exempt insurance 
                income' means income derived by a qualifying insurance 
                company which--
                          ``(i) is attributable to the issuing (or 
                      reinsuring) of an exempt contract by such company 
                      or a qualifying insurance company branch of such 
                      company, and
                          ``(ii) is treated as earned by such company or 
                      branch in its home country for purposes of such 
                      country's tax laws.
                    ``(B) Exception for certain arrangements.--Such term 
                shall not include income attributable to the issuing (or 
                reinsuring) of an exempt contract as the result of any 
                arrangement whereby another corporation receives a 
                substantially equal amount of premiums or other 
                consideration in respect of issuing (or reinsuring) a 
                contract which is not an exempt contract.
                    ``(C) Determinations made separately.--For purposes 
                of this subsection and section 954(i), the exempt 
                insurance income and exempt contracts of a qualifying 
                insurance company or any qualifying insurance company 
                branch of such company shall be determined separately 
                for such company and each such branch by taking into 
                account--
                          ``(i) in the case of the qualifying insurance 
                      company, only items of income, deduction, gain, or 
                      loss, and activities of such company not properly 
                      allocable or attributable to any qualifying 
                      insurance company branch of such company, and
                          ``(ii) in the case of a qualifying insurance 
                      company branch, only items of income, deduction, 
                      gain, or loss and activities properly allocable or 
                      attributable to such branch.
            ``(2) Exempt contract.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `exempt contract' means 
                an insurance or annuity contract issued or reinsured by 
                a qualifying insurance company or qualifying insurance 
                company branch in connection with property in, liability 
                arising out of activity in, or the lives or health of 
                residents of, a country other than the United States.
                    ``(B) Minimum home country income required.--
                          ``(i) In general.--No contract of a qualifying 
                      insurance company or of a qualifying insurance 
                      company branch shall be treated as an exempt 
                      contract unless such company or branch derives 
                      more than 30 percent of its net written premiums 
                      from exempt contracts (determined without regard 
                      to this subparagraph)--
                                    ``(I) which cover applicable home 
                                country risks, and
                                    ``(II) with respect to which no 
                                policyholder, insured, annuitant, or 
                                beneficiary is a related person (as 
                                defined in section 954(d)(3)).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-895]]

                          ``(ii) Applicable home country risks.--The 
                      term `applicable home country risks' means risks 
                      in connection with property in, liability arising 
                      out of activity in, or the lives or health of 
                      residents of, the home country of the qualifying 
                      insurance company or qualifying insurance company 
                      branch, as the case may be, issuing or reinsuring 
                      the contract covering the risks.
                    ``(C) Substantial activity requirements for cross 
                border risks.--A contract issued by a qualifying 
                insurance company or qualifying insurance company branch 
                which covers risks other than applicable home country 
                risks (as defined in subparagraph (B)(ii)) shall not be 
                treated as an exempt contract unless such company or 
                branch, as the case may be--
                          ``(i) conducts substantial activity with 
                      respect to an insurance business in its home 
                      country, and
                          ``(ii) performs in its home country 
                      substantially all of the activities necessary to 
                      give rise to the income generated by such 
                      contract.
            ``(3) Qualifying insurance company.--The term `qualifying 
        insurance company' means any controlled foreign corporation 
        which--
                    ``(A) is subject to regulation as an insurance (or 
                reinsurance) company by its home country, and is 
                licensed, authorized, or regulated by the applicable 
                insurance regulatory body for its home country to sell 
                insurance, reinsurance, or annuity contracts to persons 
                other than related persons (within the meaning of 
                section 954(d)(3)) in such home country,
                    ``(B) derives more than 50 percent of its aggregate 
                net written premiums from the issuance or reinsurance by 
                such controlled foreign corporation and each of its 
                qualifying insurance company branches of contracts--
                          ``(i) covering applicable home country risks 
                      (as defined in paragraph (2)) of such corporation 
                      or branch, as the case may be, and
                          ``(ii) with respect to which no policyholder, 
                      insured, annuitant, or beneficiary is a related 
                      person (as defined in section 954(d)(3)),
                except that in the case of a branch, such premiums shall 
                only be taken into account to the extent such premiums 
                are treated as earned by such branch in its home country 
                for purposes of such country's tax laws, and
                    ``(C) is engaged in the insurance business and would 
                be subject to tax under subchapter L if it were a 
                domestic corporation.
            ``(4) Qualifying insurance company branch.--The term 
        `qualifying insurance company branch' means a qualified business 
        unit (within the meaning of section 989(a)) of a controlled 
        foreign corporation if--
                    ``(A) such unit is licensed, authorized, or 
                regulated by the applicable insurance regulatory body 
                for its home country to sell insurance, reinsurance, or 
                annuity contracts to persons other than related persons 
                (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) in such home 
                country, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-896]]

                    ``(B) such controlled foreign corporation is a 
                qualifying insurance company, determined under paragraph 
                (3) as if such unit were a qualifying insurance company 
                branch.
            ``(5) Life insurance or annuity contract.--For purposes of 
        this section and section 954, the determination of whether a 
        contract issued by a controlled foreign corporation or a 
        qualified business unit (within the meaning of section 989(a)) 
        is a life insurance contract or an annuity contract shall be 
        made without regard to sections 72(s), 101(f), 817(h), and 7702 
        if--
                    ``(A) such contract is regulated as a life insurance 
                or annuity contract by the corporation's or unit's home 
                country, and
                    ``(B) no policyholder, insured, annuitant, or 
                beneficiary with respect to the contract is a United 
                States person.
            ``(6) Home country.--For purposes of this subsection, except 
        as provided in regulations--
                    ``(A) Controlled foreign corporation.--The term 
                `home country' means, with respect to a controlled 
                foreign corporation, the country in which such 
                corporation is created or organized.
                    ``(B) Qualified business unit.--The term `home 
                country' means, with respect to a qualified business 
                unit (as defined in section 989(a)), the country in 
                which the principal office of such unit is located and 
                in which such unit is licensed, authorized, or regulated 
                by the applicable insurance regulatory body to sell 
                insurance, reinsurance, or annuity contracts to persons 
                other than related persons (as defined in section 
                954(d)(3)) in such country.
            ``(7) Anti-abuse rules.--For purposes of applying this 
        subsection and section 954(i)--
                    ``(A) the rules of section 954(h)(7) (other than 
                subparagraph (B) thereof) shall apply,
                    ``(B) there shall be disregarded any item of income, 
                gain, loss, or deduction of, or derived from, an entity 
                which is not engaged in regular and continuous 
                transactions with persons which are not related persons,
                    ``(C) there shall be disregarded any change in the 
                method of computing reserves a principal purpose of 
                which is the acceleration or deferral of any item in 
                order to claim the benefits of this subsection or 
                section 954(i),
                    ``(D) a contract of insurance or reinsurance shall 
                not be treated as an exempt contract (and premiums from 
                such contract shall not be taken into account for 
                purposes of paragraph (2)(B) or (3)) if--
                          ``(i) any policyholder, insured, annuitant, or 
                      beneficiary is a resident of the United States and 
                      such contract was marketed to such resident and 
                      was written to cover a risk outside the United 
                      States, or
                          ``(ii) the contract covers risks located 
                      within and without the United States and the 
                      qualifying insurance company or qualifying 
                      insurance company branch does not maintain such 
                      contemporaneous records, and file such reports, 
                      with respect to such contract as the Secretary may 
                      require,
                    ``(E) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> the Secretary may 
                prescribe rules for the allocation of contracts (and 
                income from contracts) among 2 or more qualifying 
                insurance company branches of a qualifying

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-897]]

                insurance company in order to clearly reflect the income 
                of such branches, and
                    ``(F) premiums from a contract shall not be taken 
                into account for purposes of paragraph (2)(B) or (3) if 
                such contract reinsures a contract issued or reinsured 
                by a related person (as defined in section 954(d)(3)).
        For purposes of subparagraph (D), the determination of where 
        risks are located shall be made under the principles of section 
        953.
            ``(8) Coordination with subsection (c).--In determining 
        insurance income for purposes of subsection (c), exempt 
        insurance income shall not include income derived from exempt 
        contracts which cover risks other than applicable home country 
        risks.
            ``(9) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
        regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
        purposes of this subsection and section 954(i).
            ``(10) Application.--This subsection and section 954(i) 
        shall apply only to the first taxable year of a foreign 
        corporation beginning after December 31, 1998, and before 
        January 1, 2000, and to taxable years of United States 
        shareholders with or within which such taxable year of such 
        foreign corporation ends.
            ``(11) Cross reference.--

                  ``For income exempt from foreign personal holding 
                company income, see section 954(i).''.

            (2) Exemption from foreign personal holding company 
        income.--Section 954 (defining foreign base company income) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(i) Special Rule for Income Derived in the Active Conduct of 
Insurance Business.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (c)(1), 
        foreign personal holding company income shall not include 
        qualified insurance income of a qualifying insurance company.
            ``(2) Qualified insurance income.--The term `qualified 
        insurance income' means income of a qualifying insurance company 
        which is--
                    ``(A) received from a person other than a related 
                person (within the meaning of subsection (d)(3)) and 
                derived from the investments made by a qualifying 
                insurance company or a qualifying insurance company 
                branch of its reserves allocable to exempt contracts or 
                of 80 percent of its unearned premiums from exempt 
                contracts (as both are determined in the manner 
                prescribed under paragraph (4)), or
                    ``(B) received from a person other than a related 
                person (within the meaning of subsection (d)(3)) and 
                derived from investments made by a qualifying insurance 
                company or a qualifying insurance company branch of an 
                amount of its assets allocable to exempt contracts equal 
                to--
                          ``(i) in the case of property, casualty, or 
                      health insurance contracts, one-third of its 
                      premiums earned on such insurance contracts during 
                      the taxable year (as defined in section 
                      832(b)(4)), and
                          ``(ii) in the case of life insurance or 
                      annuity contracts, 10 percent of the reserves 
                      described in subparagraph (A) for such contracts.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-898]]

            ``(3) Principles for determining insurance income.--Except 
        as provided by the Secretary, for purposes of subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) of paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) in the case of any contract which is a 
                separate account-type contract (including any variable 
                contract not meeting the requirements of section 817), 
                income credited under such contract shall be allocable 
                only to such contract, and
                    ``(B) income not allocable under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be allocated ratably among contracts not described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            ``(4) Methods for determining unearned premiums and 
        reserves.--For purposes of paragraph (2)(A)--
                    ``(A) Property and casualty contracts.--The unearned 
                premiums and reserves of a qualifying insurance company 
                or a qualifying insurance company branch with respect to 
                property, casualty, or health insurance contracts shall 
                be determined using the same methods and interest rates 
                which would be used if such company or branch were 
                subject to tax under subchapter L, except that--
                          ``(i) the interest rate determined for the 
                      functional currency of the company or
branch, and which, except as provided by the Secretary, is calculated in 
the same manner as the Federal mid-term rate under section 1274(d), 
shall be substituted for the applicable Federal interest rate, and
                          ``(ii) such company or branch shall use the 
                      appropriate foreign loss payment pattern.
                    ``(B) Life insurance and annuity contracts.--The 
                amount of the reserve of a qualifying insurance company 
                or qualifying insurance company branch for any life 
                insurance or annuity contract shall be equal to the 
                greater of--
                          ``(i) the net surrender value of such contract 
                      (as defined in section 807(e)(1)(A)), or
                          ``(ii) the reserve determined under paragraph 
                      (5).
                    ``(C) Limitation on reserves.--In no event shall the 
                reserve determined under this paragraph for any contract 
                as of any time exceed the amount which would be taken 
                into account with respect to such contract as of such 
                time in determining foreign statement reserves (less any 
                catastrophe, deficiency, equalization, or similar 
                reserves).
            ``(5) Amount of reserve.--The amount of the reserve 
        determined under this paragraph with respect to any contract 
        shall be determined in the same manner as it would be determined 
        if the qualifying insurance company or qualifying insurance 
        company branch were subject to tax under subchapter L, except 
        that in applying such subchapter--
                    ``(A) the interest rate determined for the 
                functional currency of the company or branch, and which, 
                except as provided by the Secretary, is calculated in 
                the same manner as the Federal mid-term rate under 
                section 1274(d), shall be substituted for the applicable 
                Federal interest rate,
                    ``(B) the highest assumed interest rate permitted to 
                be used in determining foreign statement reserves shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-899]]

                be substituted for the prevailing State assumed interest 
                rate, and
                    ``(C) tables for mortality and morbidity which 
                reasonably reflect the current mortality and morbidity 
                risks in the company's or branch's home country shall be 
                substituted for the mortality and morbidity tables 
                otherwise used for such subchapter.
        The Secretary may provide that the interest rate and mortality 
        and morbidity tables of a qualifying insurance company may be 
        used for 1 or more of its qualifying insurance company branches 
        when appropriate.
            ``(6) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, any 
        term used in this subsection which is also used in section 
        953(e) shall have the meaning given such term by section 953.''.
            (3) Reserves.--Section 953(b) is amended by redesignating 
        paragraph (3) as paragraph (4) and by inserting after paragraph 
        (2) the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Reserves for any insurance or annuity contract shall 
        be determined in the same manner as under section 954(i).''.

    (c) Special Rules for Dealers.--Section 954(c)(2)(C) is amended to 
read as follows:
                    ``(C) Exception for dealers.--Except as provided by 
                regulations, in the case of a regular dealer in property 
                which is property described in paragraph (1)(B), forward 
                contracts,
option contracts, or similar financial instruments (including notional 
principal contracts and all instruments referenced to commodities), 
there shall not be taken into account in computing foreign personal 
holding company income--
                          ``(i) any item of income, gain, deduction, or 
                      loss (other than any item described in 
                      subparagraph (A), (E), or (G) of paragraph (1)) 
                      from any transaction (including hedging 
                      transactions) entered into in the ordinary course 
                      of such dealer's trade or business as such a 
                      dealer, and
                          ``(ii) if such dealer is a dealer in 
                      securities (within the meaning of section 475), 
                      any interest or dividend or equivalent amount 
                      described in subparagraph (E) or (G) of paragraph 
                      (1) from any transaction (including any hedging 
                      transaction or transaction described in section 
                      956(c)(2)(J)) entered into in the ordinary course 
                      of such dealer's trade or business as such a 
                      dealer in securities, but only if the income from 
                      the transaction is attributable to activities of 
                      the dealer in the country under the laws of which 
                      the dealer is created or organized (or in the case 
                      of a qualified business unit described in section 
                      989(a), is attributable to activities of the unit 
                      in the country in which the unit both maintains 
                      its principal office and conducts substantial 
                      business activity).''.

    (d) Exemption From Foreign Base Company Services Income.--Paragraph 
(2) of section 954(e) is amended by inserting ``or'' at the end of 
subparagraph (A), by striking ``, or'' at the end of subparagraph (B) 
and inserting a period, by striking subparagraph (C), and by adding at 
the end the following new flush sentence:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-900]]

        ``Paragraph (1) shall also not apply to income which is exempt 
        insurance income (as defined in section 953(e)) or which is not 
        treated as foreign personal holding income by reason of 
        subsection (c)(2)(C)(ii), (h), or (i).''.

    (e) Exemption for Gain.--Section 954(c)(1)(B)(i) (relating to net 
gains from certain property transactions) is amended by inserting 
``other than property which gives rise to income not treated as foreign 
personal holding company income by reason of subsection (h) or (i) for 
the taxable year'' before the comma at the end.

SEC. 1006. DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION ON INCOME CONTINGENT STUDENT 
            LOANS.

    Subparagraph (D) of section 6103(l)(13) (relating to disclosure of 
return information to carry out income contingent repayment of student 
loans) is amended by striking ``September 30, 1998'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2003''.

                      Subtitle B--Trade Provisions

SEC. 1011. EXTENSION OF DUTY-FREE TREATMENT UNDER GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF 
            PREFERENCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 505 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2465) is amended by striking ``June 30, 1998'' and inserting ``June 30, 
1999''.
     <<NOTE: 19 USC 2465 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section apply 
        to articles entered on or after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Retroactive application for certain liquidations and 
        reliquidations.--
                    (A) General rule.--Notwithstanding section 514 of 
                the Tariff Act of 1930 or any other provision of law, 
                and subject to paragraph (3), any entry--
                          (i) of an article to which duty-free treatment 
                      under title V of the Trade Act of 1974 would have 
                      applied if such entry had been made on July 1, 
                      1998, and such title had been in effect on July 1, 
                      1998, and
                          (ii) that was made--
                                    (I) after June 30, 1998, and
                                    (II) before the date of enactment of 
                                this Act,
                shall be liquidated or reliquidated as free of duty, and 
                the Secretary of the Treasury shall refund any duty paid 
                with respect to such entry.
                    (B) Entry.--As used in this paragraph, the term 
                ``entry'' includes a withdrawal from warehouse for 
                consumption.
            (3) Requests.--Liquidation or reliquidation may be made 
        under paragraph (2) with respect to an entry only if a request 
        therefor is filed with the Customs Service, within 180 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, that contains 
        sufficient information to enable the Customs Service--
                    (A) to locate the entry; or
                    (B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be 
                located.

SEC. 1012. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Assistance for Workers.--Section 245 of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2317) is amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-901]]

            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``for each of'' and all 
        that follows through ``1998,'' and inserting ``for the period 
        beginning October 1, 1998, and ending June 30, 1999,''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``for each of'' and all 
        that follows through ``1998,'' and inserting ``for the period 
        beginning October 1, 1998, and ending June 30, 1999,''.

    (b) NAFTA Transitional Program.--Section 250(d)(2) of the Trade Act 
of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2331(d)(2)) is amended by striking ``for any fiscal 
year shall not exceed $30,000,000'' and inserting ``for the period 
beginning October 1, 1998, and ending June 30, 1999, shall not exceed 
$15,000,000''.
    (c) Adjustment Assistance for Firms.--Section 256(b) of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2346(b)) is amended by striking ``for fiscal 
years'' and all that follows through ``1998'' and inserting ``for the 
period beginning October 1, 1998, and ending June 30, 1999''.
    (d) Termination.--Section 285(c) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2271 note preceding) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 1998'' and 
        inserting ``June 30, 1999''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``the day that is'' and 
        all that follows through ``effective'' and inserting ``June 30, 
        1999''.

                     TITLE II--OTHER TAX PROVISIONS

             Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Individuals

SEC. 2001. NONREFUNDABLE PERSONAL CREDITS FULLY ALLOWED AGAINST REGULAR 
            TAX LIABILITY DURING 1998.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 26 is amended by adding 
at the end the following flush sentence:
``For purposes of paragraph (2), the taxpayer's tentative minimum tax 
for any taxable year beginning during 1998 shall be treated as being 
zero.''
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 24(d)(2) is amended by striking 
``The credit'' and inserting ``For taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 1998, the credit''.
     <<NOTE: 26 USC 24 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 1997.

SEC. 2002. 100 PERCENT DEDUCTION FOR HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS OF SELF-
            EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--The table contained in subparagraph (B) of section 
162(l)(1) (relating to special rules for health insurance costs of self-
employed individuals) is amended to read as follows:

``For taxable years beginnThe applicable percentage is--
        in calendar year--
1999 through 2001                                                    60 
2002                                                                 70 
2003 and thereafter                                               100.''

       <<NOTE: Applicability. 26 USC 162 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 1998.

SEC. 2003. MODIFICATION OF ESTIMATED TAX SAFE HARBORS.

      (a) In General.--The table contained in clause (i) of section 
6654(d)(1)(C) (relating to limitation on use of preceding year's tax)

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-902]]

is amended by striking the item relating to 1998, 1999, or 2000 and 
inserting the following new items:

``1998                                                              105 
1999 or 2000                                                      106''.

       <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 6654 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
The amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to any 
installment payment for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1999.

               Subtitle B--Provisions Relating to Farmers

SEC. 2011. INCOME AVERAGING FOR FARMERS MADE PERMANENT.

    Subsection (c) of section 933 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997 <<NOTE: 26 USC 1301 note.>> is amended by striking ``, and before 
January 1, 2001''.

SEC. 2012. PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY CONTRACT PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: 7 USC 7212 note.>> The options under 
paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 112(d) of the Federal Agriculture 
Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7212(d) (2) and (3)), as in 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be disregarded in 
determining the taxable year for which any payment under a production 
flexibility contract under subtitle B of title I of such Act (as so in 
effect) is properly includible in gross income for purposes of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

     <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall 
apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 1995.

SEC. 2013. 5-YEAR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYBACK FOR FARMING LOSSES.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 172(b) (relating to net 
operating loss deduction) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) Farming losses.--In the case of a taxpayer 
                which has a farming loss (as defined in subsection (i)) 
                for a taxable year, such farming loss shall be a net 
                operating loss carryback to each of the 5 taxable years 
                preceding the taxable year of such loss.''.

    (b) Farming Loss.--Section 172 is amended by redesignating 
subsection (i) as subsection (j) and by inserting after subsection (h) 
the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Rules Relating to Farming Losses.--For purposes of this 
section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `farming loss' means the lesser 
        of--
                    ``(A) the amount which would be the net operating 
                loss for the taxable year if only income and deductions 
                attributable to farming businesses (as defined in 
                section 263A(e)(4)) are taken into account, or
                    ``(B) the amount of the net operating loss for such 
                taxable year.
            ``(2) Coordination with subsection (b)(2).--For purposes of 
        applying subsection (b)(2), a farming loss for any taxable year 
        shall be treated in a manner similar to the manner in which a 
        specified liability loss is treated.
            ``(3) Election.--Any taxpayer entitled to a 5-year carryback 
        under subsection (b)(1)(G) from any loss year may elect to have 
        the carryback period with respect to such loss year determined 
        without regard to subsection (b)(1)(G). Such election shall be 
        made in such manner as may be prescribed

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-903]]

        by the Secretary and shall be made by the due date (including 
        extensions of time) for filing the taxpayer's return for the 
        taxable year of the net operating loss. Such election, once made 
        for any taxable year, shall be irrevocable for such taxable 
        year.''.

    (c) Coordination With Farm Disaster Losses.--Clause (ii) of section 
172(b)(1)(F) is amended by adding at the end the following flush 
sentence:
                      ``Such term shall not include any farming loss (as 
                      defined in subsection (i)).''.

     <<NOTE: Applicability. 26 USC 172 note.>> (d) Effective Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall apply to net operating losses for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 1997.

                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

SEC. 2021. INCREASE IN VOLUME CAP ON PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 146 (relating to volume 
cap) is amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) In general.--The State ceiling applicable to any State 
        for any calendar year shall be the greater of--
                    ``(A) an amount equal to the per capita limit for 
                such year multiplied by the State population, or
                    ``(B) the aggregate limit for such year.
        Subparagraph (B) shall not apply to any possession of the United 
        States.
            ``(2) Per capita limit; aggregate limit.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the per capita limit, and the aggregate limit, 
        for any calendar year shall be determined in accordance with the 
        following table:
      

 
              Calendar Year                        Per Capita Limit                    Aggregate Limit
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1999 through 2002......................                $50                            $150,000,000
  2003...................................                 55                             165,000,000
  2004...................................                 60                             180,000,000
  2005...................................                 65                             195,000,000
  2006...................................                 70                             210,000,000
  2007 and thereafter....................                 75                            225,000,000.''

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 146 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to calendar years after 1998.

SEC. 2022. <<NOTE: 26 USC 168 note.>> DEPRECIATION STUDY.

    The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's delegate)--
            (1) shall conduct a comprehensive study of the recovery 
        periods and depreciation methods under section 168 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and
            (2) not later than March 31, 2000, shall submit the results 
        of such study, together with recommendations for determining 
        such periods and methods in a more rational manner, to the 
        Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and 
        the Committee on Finance of the Senate.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-904]]

SEC. 2023. <<NOTE: 42 USC 418 note.>> EXEMPTION FOR STUDENTS EMPLOYED BY 
            STATE SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, OR UNIVERSITIES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 218 of the Social Security 
Act, any agreement with a State (or any modification thereof) entered 
into pursuant to such section may, at the option of such State, be 
modified at any time on or after January 1, 1999, and on or before March 
31, 1999, so as to exclude service performed in the employ of a school, 
college, or university if such service is performed by a student who is 
enrolled and is regularly attending classes at such school, college, or 
university.
    (b) Effective Date of Modification.--Any modification of an 
agreement pursuant to subsection (a) shall be effective with respect to 
services performed after June 30, 2000.
    (c) Irrevocability of Modification.--If any modification of an 
agreement pursuant to subsection (a) terminates coverage with respect to 
service performed in the employ of a school, college, or university, by 
a student who is enrolled and regularly attending classes at such 
school, college, or university, the Commissioner of Social Security and 
the State may not thereafter modify such agreement so as to again make 
the agreement applicable to such service performed in the employ of such 
school, college, or university.

                       TITLE III--REVENUE OFFSETS

SEC. 3001. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DEDUCTIBLE LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTIONS OF 
            REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT 
            TRUSTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 332 (relating to complete liquidations of 
subsidiaries) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:

    ``(c) Deductible Liquidating Distributions of Regulated Investment 
Companies and Real Estate Investment Trusts.--If a corporation receives 
a distribution from a regulated investment company or a real estate 
investment trust which is considered under subsection (b) as being in 
complete liquidation of such company or trust, then, notwithstanding any 
other provision of this chapter, such corporation shall recognize and 
treat as a dividend from such company or trust an amount equal to the 
deduction for dividends paid allowable to such company or trust by 
reason of such distribution.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) The material preceding paragraph (1) of section 332(b) 
        is amended by striking ``subsection (a)'' and inserting ``this 
        section''.
            (2) Paragraph (1) of section 334(b) is amended by striking 
        ``section 332(a)'' and inserting ``section 332''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 332 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to distributions after May 21, 1998.

    (d) Assumptions.--In making the estimate required for this Act by 
section 252(d)(2) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, that part of the estimate that measures the change in 
receipts resulting from the amendments made by this section shall be 
based on the economic and technical assumptions underlying the 
supplemental summary of the budget for fiscal year 1999, submitted on 
May 26, 1998, pursuant to section 1106 of title 31, United States Code, 
notwithstanding section 252(d)(2)(B).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-905]]

All other parts of such estimate required by such section 252(d)(2) 
shall be made pursuant to the requirements of such section 252(d)(2)(B).

SEC. 3002. INCLUSION OF ROTAVIRUS GASTROENTERITIS AS A TAXABLE VACCINE.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 4132(a) (defining taxable 
vaccine) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) Any vaccine against rotavirus 
                gastroenteritis.''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 4132 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) Sales.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
        to sales after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Deliveries.--For purposes of paragraph (1), in the case 
        of sales on or before the date of the enactment of this Act for 
        which delivery is made after such date, the delivery date shall 
        be considered the sale date.

SEC. 3003. CLARIFICATION AND EXPANSION OF MATHEMATICAL ERROR ASSESSMENT 
            PROCEDURES.

    (a) TIN Deemed Incorrect if Information on Return Differs With 
Agency Records.--Paragraph (2) of section 6213(g) (defining mathematical 
or clerical error) is amended by adding at the end the following flush 
sentence:
        ``A taxpayer shall be treated as having omitted a correct TIN 
        for purposes of the preceding sentence if information provided 
        by the taxpayer on the return with respect to the individual 
        whose TIN was provided differs from the information the 
        Secretary obtains from the person issuing the TIN.''.

    (b) Expansion of Mathematical Error Procedures to Cases Where TIN 
Establishes Individual Not Eligible for Tax Credit.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 6213(g) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of 
subparagraph (J), by striking the period at the end of the subparagraph 
(K) and inserting ``, and'', and by inserting after subparagraph (K) the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(L) the inclusion on a return of a TIN required to 
                be included on the return under section 21, 24, or 32 
                if--
                          ``(i) such TIN is of an individual whose age 
                      affects the amount of the credit under such 
                      section, and
                          ``(ii) the computation of the credit on the 
                      return reflects the treatment of such individual 
                      as being of an age different from the individual's 
                      age based on such TIN.''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 6213 note.>> (c) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3004. CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF SPECIFIED LIABILITY LOSS.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 172(f)(1) (defining 
specified liability loss) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(B)(i) Any amount allowable as a deduction under 
                this chapter (other than section 468(a)(1) or 468A(a)) 
                which is in satisfaction of a liability under a Federal 
                or State law requiring--
                          ``(I) the reclamation of land,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-906]]

                          ``(II) the decommissioning of a nuclear power 
                      plant (or any unit thereof),
                          ``(III) the dismantlement of a drilling 
                      platform,
                          ``(IV) the remediation of environmental 
                      contamination, or
                          ``(V) a payment under any workers compensation 
                      act (within the meaning of section 
                      461(h)(2)(C)(i)).
                    ``(ii) A liability shall be taken into account under 
                this subparagraph only if--
                          ``(I) the act (or failure to act) giving rise 
                      to such liability occurs at least 3 years before 
                      the beginning of the taxable year, and
                          ``(II) the taxpayer used an accrual method of 
                      accounting throughout the period or periods during 
                      which such act (or failure to act) occurred.''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 172 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to net operating losses arising in taxable 
years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                     TITLE IV--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

SEC. 4001. DEFINITIONS; COORDINATION WITH <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>> OTHER 
            TITLES.

    (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this title--
            (1) 1986 code.--The term ``1986 Code'' means the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986.
            (2) 1998 act.--The term ``1998 Act'' means the Internal 
        Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 (Public Law 
        105-206).
            (3) 1997 act.--The term ``1997 Act'' means the Taxpayer 
        Relief Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-34).

    (b) Coordination With Other Titles.--For purposes of applying the 
amendments made by any title of this division other than this title, the 
provisions of this title shall be treated as having been enacted 
immediately before the provisions of such other titles.

SEC. 4002. AMENDMENTS RELATED TO INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE RESTRUCTURING 
            AND REFORM ACT OF 1998.

    (a) Amendment Related to Section 1101 of 1998 Act.--Paragraph (5) of 
section 6103(h) of the 1986 Code, as added by section 1101(b) of the 
1998 Act, is redesignated as paragraph (6).
    (b) Amendment Related to Section 3001 of 1998 Act.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 7491(a) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at the end the 
following flush sentence:
        ``Subparagraph (C) shall not apply to any qualified revocable 
        trust (as defined in section 645(b)(1)) with respect to 
        liability for tax for any taxable year ending after the date of 
        the decedent's death and before the applicable date (as defined 
        in section 645(b)(2)).''.

    (c) Amendments Related to Section 3201 of 1998 Act.--
            (1) Section 7421(a) of the 1986 Code is amended by striking 
        ``6015(d)'' and inserting ``6015(e)''.
            (2) Subparagraph (A) of section 6015(e)(3) is amended by 
        striking ``of this section'' and inserting ``of subsection (b) 
        or (f)''.

    (d) Amendment Related to Section 3301 of 1998 Act.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 3301(c) of the 1998 Act <<NOTE: 26 USC 6601 note.>> is amended 
by striking ``The amendments'' and inserting ``Subject to any applicable

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-907]]

statute of limitation not having expired with regard to either a tax 
underpayment or a tax overpayment, the amendments''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 7443A.>> (e) Amendment Related to Section 3401 of 
1998 Act.--Section 3401(c) of the 1998 Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``7443(b)'' and inserting 
        ``7443A(b)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``7443(c)'' and inserting 
        ``7443A(c)''.

    (f) Amendment Related to Section 3433 of 1998 Act.--Section 7421(a) 
of the 1986 Code is amended by inserting ``6331(i),'' after 
``6246(b),''.
    (g) Amendment Related to Section 3467 of 1998 Act.--The subsection 
(d) of section 6159 of the 1986 Code relating to cross reference is 
redesignated as subsection (e).
    (h) Amendment Related to Section 3708 of 1998 Act.--Subparagraph (A) 
of section 6103(p)(3) of the 1986 Code is amended by inserting 
``(f)(5),'' after ``(c), (e),''.
    (i) Amendments Related to Section 5001 of 1998 Act.--
            (1) Subparagraph (B) of section 1(h)(13) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``paragraph (7)(A)'' and inserting 
        ``paragraph (7)(A)(i)''.
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>> (2)(A) Subparagraphs (A)(i)(II), 
        (A)(ii)(II), and (B)(ii) of section 1(h)(13) of the 1986 Code 
        shall not apply to any distribution after December 31, 1997, by 
        a regulated investment company or a real estate investment trust 
        with respect to--
                    (i) gains and losses recognized directly by such 
                company or trust, and
                    (ii) amounts properly taken into account by such 
                company or trust by reason of holding (directly or 
                indirectly) an interest in another such company or trust 
                to the extent that such subparagraphs did not apply to 
                such other company or trust with respect to such 
                amounts.
            (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any distribution 
        which is treated under section 852(b)(7) or 857(b)(8) of the 
        1986 Code as received on December 31, 1997.
            (C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), any amount which is 
        includible in gross income of its shareholders under section 
        852(b)(3)(D) or 857(b)(3)(D) of the 1986 Code after December 31, 
        1997, shall be treated as distributed after such date.
            (D)(i) For purposes of subparagraph (A), in the case of a 
        qualified partnership with respect to which a regulated 
        investment company meets the holding requirement of clause 
        (iii)--
                    (I) the subparagraphs referred to in subparagraph 
                (A) shall not apply to gains and losses recognized 
                directly by such partnership for purposes of determining 
                such company's distributive share of such gains and 
                losses, and
                    (II) such company's distributive share of such gains 
                and losses (as so determined) shall be treated as 
                recognized directly by such company.
        <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The preceding sentence shall apply only 
        if the qualified partnership provides the company with written 
        documentation of such distributive share as so determined.
            (ii) For purposes of clause (i), the term ``qualified 
        partnership'' means, with respect to a regulated investment 
        company, any partnership if--
                    (I) the partnership is an investment company 
                registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-908]]

                    (II) the regulated investment company is permitted 
                to invest in such partnership by reason of section 
                12(d)(1)(E) of such Act or an exemptive order of the 
                Securities and Exchange Commission under such section, 
                and
                    (III) the regulated investment company and the 
                partnership have the same taxable year.
            (iii) A regulated investment company meets the holding 
        requirement of this clause with respect to a qualified 
        partnership if (as of January 1, 1998)--
                    (I) the value of the interests of the regulated 
                investment company in such partnership is 35 percent or 
                more of the value of such company's total assets, or
                    (II) the value of the interests of the regulated 
                investment company in such partnership and all other 
                qualified partnerships is 90 percent or more of the 
                value of such company's total assets.
            (3) Paragraph (13) of section 1(h) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Charitable remainder trusts.--Subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B)(ii) shall not apply to any capital gain 
                distribution made by a trust described in section 664.''

    (j) Amendment Related to Section 7004 of 1998 Act.--Clause (i) of 
section 408A(c)(3)(C) of the 1986 Code, as amended by section 7004 of 
the 1998 Act, is amended by striking the period at the end of subclause 
(II) and inserting ``, and''.
    (k) Effective Date <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>> .--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the provisions of 
the 1998 Act to which they relate.

SEC. 4003. AMENDMENTS RELATED TO TAXPAYER RELIEF ACT OF 1997.

    (a) Amendments Related to Section 202 of 1997 Act.--
            (1) Paragraph (2) of section 163(h) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D), by 
        striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``, and'', and by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(F) any interest allowable as a deduction under 
                section 221 (relating to interest on educational 
                loans).''
            (2)(A) Subparagraph (C) of section 221(b)(2) of the 1986 
        Code is amended--
                    (i) by striking ``135, 137,'' in clause (i),
                    (ii) by inserting ``135, 137,'' after ``sections 
                86,'' in clause (ii), and
                    (iii) by striking the last sentence.
            (B) Sections 86(b)(2)(A), 135(c)(4)(A), and 219(g)(3)(A)(ii) 
        of the 1986 Code are each amended by inserting ``221,'' after 
        ``137,''.
            (C) Subparagraph (A) of section 137(b)(3) of the 1986 Code 
        is amended by inserting ``221,'' before ``911,''.
            (D) Clause (iii) of section 469(i)(3)(E) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended to read as follows:
                          ``(iii) the amounts allowable as a deduction 
                      under sections 219 and 221, and''.
            (3) The last sentence of section 221(e)(1) of the 1986 Code 
        is amended by inserting before the period ``or to any person by 
        reason of a loan under any qualified employer plan (as

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-909]]

        defined in section 72(p)(4)) or under any contract referred to 
        in section 72(p)(5)''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>> (b) Provision Related to Section 311 of 
1997 Act.--In the case of any capital gain distribution made after 1997 
by a trust to which section 664 of the 1986 Code applies with respect to 
amounts properly taken into account by such trust during 1997, 
paragraphs (5)(A)(i)(I), (5)(A)(ii)(I), and (13)(A) of section 1(h) of 
the 1986 Code (as in effect for taxable years ending on December 31, 
1997) shall not apply.

    (c) Amendment Related to Section 506 of 1997 Act.--Section 
2001(f)(2) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
        ``For purposes of subparagraph (A), the value of an item shall 
        be treated as shown on a return if the item is disclosed in the 
        return, or in a statement attached to the return, in a manner 
        adequate to apprise the Secretary of the nature of such item.''.

    (d) Amendments Related to Section 904 of 1997 Act.--
            (1) Paragraph (1) of section 9510(c) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts in the Vaccine Injury 
        Compensation Trust Fund shall be available, as provided in 
        appropriation Acts, only for--
                    ``(A) the payment of compensation under subtitle 2 
                of title XXI of the Public Health Service Act (as in 
                effect on August 5, 1997) for vaccine-related injury or 
                death with respect to any vaccine--
                          ``(i) which is administered after September 
                      30, 1988, and
                          ``(ii) which is a taxable vaccine (as defined 
                      in section 4132(a)(1)) at the time compensation is 
                      paid under such subtitle 2, or
                    ``(B) the payment of all expenses of administration 
                (but not in excess of $9,500,000 for any fiscal year) 
                incurred by the Federal Government in administering such 
                subtitle.''.
            (2) Section 9510(b) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Limitation on transfers to vaccine injury compensation 
        trust fund.--No amount may be appropriated to the Vaccine Injury 
        Compensation Trust Fund on and after the date of any expenditure 
        from the Trust Fund which is not permitted by this section. The 
        determination of whether an expenditure is so permitted shall be 
        made without regard to--
                    ``(A) any provision of law which is not contained or 
                referenced in this title or in a revenue Act, and
                    ``(B) whether such provision of law is a 
                subsequently enacted provision or directly or indirectly 
                seeks to waive the application of this paragraph.''.

    (e) Amendments Related to Section 915 of 1997 Act.--
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 7508A note.>> (1) Section 915(b) of the 1997 
        Act is amended by inserting ``or 1998'' after ``1997''.
            (2) Paragraph (2) of section 6404(h) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by inserting ``Robert T. Stafford'' before ``Disaster''.

    (f) Amendments Related to Section 1012 of 1997 Act.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-910]]

            (1) Paragraph (2) of section 351(c) of the 1986 Code, as 
        amended by section 6010(c) of the 1998 Act, is amended by 
        inserting ``, or the fact that the corporation whose stock was 
        distributed issues additional stock,'' after ``dispose of part 
        or all of the distributed stock''.
            (2) Clause (ii) of section 368(a)(2)(H) of the 1986 Code, as 
        amended by section 6010(c) of the 1998 Act, is amended by 
        inserting ``, or the fact that the corporation whose stock was 
        distributed issues additional stock,'' after ``dispose of part 
        or all of the distributed stock''.

     <<NOTE: 26 USC 833 note.>> (g) Provision Related to Section 1042 of 
1997 Act.--Rules similar to the rules of section 1.1502-75(d)(5) of the 
Treasury Regulations shall apply with respect to any organization 
described in section 1042(b) of the 1997 Act.

    (h) Amendment Related to Section 1082 of 1997 Act.--Subparagraph (F) 
of section 172(b)(1) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at the end 
the following new clause:
                          ``(iv) Coordination with paragraph (2).--For 
                      purposes of applying paragraph (2), an eligible 
                      loss for any taxable year shall be treated in a 
                      manner similar to the manner in which a specified 
                      liability loss is treated.''

    (i) Amendment Related to Section 1084 of 1997 Act.--Paragraph (3) of 
section 264(f) of the 1986 Code is amended by adding at the end the 
following flush sentence:
        ``If the amount described in subparagraph (A) with respect to 
        any policy or contract does not reasonably approximate its 
        actual value, the amount taken into account under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be the greater of the amount of the insurance company 
        liability or the insurance company reserve with respect to such 
        policy or contract (as determined for purposes of the annual 
        statement approved by the National Association of Insurance 
        Commissioners) or shall be such other amount as is determined by 
        the Secretary.''

    (j) Amendment Related to Section 1175 of 1997 Act.--Subparagraph (C) 
of section 954(e)(2) of the 1986 Code is amended by striking 
``subsection (h)(8)'' and inserting ``subsection (h)(9)''.
    (k) Amendment Related to Section 1205 of 1997 Act.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 6311(d) of the 1986 Code is amended by striking ``under such 
contracts'' in
the last sentence and inserting ``under any such contract for the use of 
credit, debit, or charge cards for the payment of taxes imposed by 
subtitle A''.

    (l) Effective Date <<NOTE: 26 USC 86 note.>> .--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the provisions of 
the 1997 Act to which they relate.

SEC. 4004. AMENDMENTS RELATED TO TAX REFORM ACT OF 1984.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (C) of section 172(d)(4) of the 1986 
Code is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(C) any deduction for casualty or theft losses 
                allowable under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 165(c) 
                shall be treated as attributable to the trade or 
                business; and''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Paragraph (3) of section 67(b) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``for losses described in subsection (c)(3) 
        or (d) of section 165'' and inserting ``for casualty or theft 
        losses

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-911]]

        described in paragraph (2) or (3) of section 165(c) or for 
        losses described in section 165(d)''.
            (2) Paragraph (3) of section 68(c) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``for losses described in subsection (c)(3) 
        or (d) of section 165'' and inserting ``for casualty or theft 
        losses described in paragraph (2) or (3) of section 165(c) or 
        for losses described in section 165(d)''.
            (3) Paragraph (1) of section 873(b) is amended to read as 
        follows:
            ``(1) Losses.--The deduction allowed by section 165 for 
        casualty or theft losses described in paragraph (2) or (3) of 
        section 165(c), but only if the loss is of property located 
        within the United States.''

     <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (c) Effective Dates.--
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 172 note.>> (1) The amendments made by 
        subsections (a) and (b)(3) shall apply to taxable years 
        beginning after December 31, 1983.
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 67 note.>> (2) The amendment made by 
        subsection (b)(1) shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 1986.
             <<NOTE: 26 USC 68 note.>> (3) The amendment made by 
        subsection (b)(2) shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 1990.

SEC. 4005. AMENDMENTS RELATED TO URUGUAY ROUND AGREEMENTS ACT.

    (a) Inapplicability of Assignment Prohibition.--Section 207 of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 407) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit 
withholding taxes from any benefit under this title, if such withholding 
is done pursuant to a request made in accordance with section 3402(p)(1) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by the person entitled to such 
benefit or such person's representative payee.''.
    (b) Proper Allocation of Costs of Withholding Between the Trust 
Funds and the General Fund.--Section 201(g) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
401(g)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting before the period in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) 
        the following: ``and the functions of the Social Security 
        Administration in connection with the withholding of taxes from 
        benefits, as described in section 207(c), pursuant to requests 
        by persons entitled to such benefits or such persons' 
        representative payee'';
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end of paragraph 
        (1)(A) the following: ``and the functions of the Social Security 
        Administration in connection with the withholding of taxes from 
        benefits, as described in section 207(c), pursuant to requests 
        by persons entitled to such benefits or such persons' 
        representative payee'';
            (3) in paragraph (1)(B)(i)(I), by striking ``subparagraph 
        (A)),'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A)) and the functions of 
        the Social Security Administration in connection with the 
        withholding of taxes from benefits, as described in section 
        207(c), pursuant to requests by persons entitled to such 
        benefits or such persons' representative payee,'';
            (4) in paragraph (1)(C)(iii), by inserting before the period 
        the following: ``and the functions of the Social Security 
        Administration in connection with the withholding of taxes from 
        benefits, as described in section 207(c), pursuant to requests 
        by

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-912]]

        persons entitled to such benefits or such persons' 
        representative payee'';
            (5) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting after ``section 232'' 
        the following: ``and the functions of the Social Security 
        Administration in connection with the withholding of taxes from 
        benefits as described in section 207(c)''; and
            (6) in paragraph (4), by inserting after the first sentence 
        the following: ``The Board of Trustees of such Trust Funds shall 
        prescribe the method of determining the costs which should be 
        borne by the general fund in the Treasury of carrying out the 
        functions of the Social Security Administration in connection 
        with the withholding of taxes from benefits, as described in 
        section 207(c), pursuant to requests by persons entitled to such 
        benefits or such persons' representative payee.''.

    (c) Effective Date.-- <<NOTE: 42 USC 401 note.>> The amendments made 
by subsection (b) shall apply to benefits paid on or after the first day 
of the second month beginning after the month in which this Act is 
enacted.

SEC. 4006. OTHER AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Amendments Related to Section 6103 of 1986 Code.--
            (1) Subsection (j) of section 6103 of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Department of agriculture.--Upon request in writing by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary shall furnish such 
        returns, or return information reflected thereon, as the 
        Secretary may prescribe by regulation to officers and employees 
        of the Department of Agriculture whose official duties require 
        access to such returns or information for the purpose of, but 
        only to the extent necessary in, structuring, preparing, and 
        conducting the census of agriculture pursuant to the Census of 
        Agriculture Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-113).''.
            (2) Paragraph (4) of section 6103(p) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``(j)(1) or (2)'' in the material preceding 
        subparagraph (A) and in subparagraph (F) and inserting ``(j)(1), 
        (2), or (5)''.
             <<NOTE: Applicability. 26 USC 6103 note.>> (3) The 
        amendments made by this subsection shall apply to requests made 
        on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (b) Amendment Related to Section 9004 of Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century.--
            (1) Paragraph (2) of section 9503(f) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) notwithstanding section 9602(b), obligations held by 
        such Fund after September 30, 1998, shall be obligations of the 
        United States which are not interest-bearing.''
            (2) <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 9503 note.>> The 
        amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 
        1998.

    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Clause (i) of section 51(d)(6)(B) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``rehabilitation plan'' and inserting ``plan 
        for employment''. The <<NOTE: 26 USC 51 note.>> reference to 
        ``plan for employment'' in such clause shall be treated as 
        including a reference to the rehabilitation plan referred to in 
        such clause as in effect before the amendment made by the 
        preceding sentence.
            (2) Paragraph (3) of section 56(a) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``section 460(b)(2)'' and inserting 
        ``section

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-913]]

        460(b)(1)'' and by striking ``section 460(b)(4)'' and inserting 
        ``section 460(b)(3)''.
            (3) Paragraph (10) of section 2031(c) of the 1986 Code is 
        amended by striking ``section 2033A(e)(3)'' and inserting 
        ``section 2057(e)(3)''.
            (4) Subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 6693(a)(2) of the 
        1986 Code are each amended by striking ``Section'' and inserting 
        ``section''.

                  TITLE V--MEDICARE-RELATED PROVISIONS

                         Subtitle A--Home Health

SEC. 5101. INCREASE IN PER BENEFICIARY LIMITS AND PER VISIT PAYMENT 
            LIMITS FOR PAYMENT FOR HOME HEALTH SERVICES.

    (a) Increase in Per Beneficiary Limits.--Section 1861(v)(1)(L) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(v)(1)(L)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of clause (v), by inserting 
        ``subject to clause (viii)(I),'' before ``the Secretary'';
            (2) in clause (vi)(I), by inserting ``subject to clauses 
        (viii)(II) and (viii)(III)'' after ``fiscal year 1994''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:

    ``(viii)(I) In the case of a provider with a 12-month cost reporting 
period ending in fiscal year 1994, if the limit imposed under clause (v) 
(determined without regard to this subclause) for a cost reporting 
period beginning during or after fiscal year 1999 is less than the 
median described in clause (vi)(I) (but determined as if any reference 
in clause (v) to `98 percent' were a reference to `100 percent'), the 
limit otherwise imposed under clause (v) for such provider and period 
shall be increased by \1/3\ of such difference.
    ``(II) Subject to subclause (IV), for new providers and those 
providers without a 12-month cost reporting period ending in fiscal year 
1994, but for which the first cost reporting period begins before fiscal 
year 1999, for cost reporting periods beginning during or after fiscal 
year 1999, the per beneficiary limitation described in clause (vi)(I) 
shall be equal to the median described in such clause (determined as if 
any reference in clause (v) to `98 percent' were a reference to `100 
percent').
    ``(III) Subject to subclause (IV), in the case of a new provider for 
which the first cost reporting period begins during or after fiscal year 
1999, the limitation applied under clause (vi)(I) (but only with respect 
to such provider) shall be equal to 75 percent of the median described 
in clause (vi)(I).
    ``(IV) In the case of a new provider or a provider without a 12-
month cost reporting period ending in fiscal year 1994, subclause (II) 
shall apply, instead of subclause (III), to a home health agency which 
filed an application for home health agency provider status under this 
title before September 15, 1998, or which was approved as a branch of 
its parent agency before such date and becomes a subunit of the parent 
agency or a separate agency on or after such date.
    ``(V) Each of the amounts specified in subclauses (I) through (III) 
are such amounts as adjusted under clause (iii) to reflect variations in 
wages among different areas.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-914]]

    (b) Revision of Per Visit Limits.--Section 1861(v)(1)(L)(i) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(v)(1)(L)(i)) is amended--
            (1) in subclause (III), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subclause (IV)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and before October 1, 1998,'' 
                after ``October 1, 1997,''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``, or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
            ``(V) October 1, 1998, 106 percent of such median.''.

    (c) One-Year Delay in 15 Percent Reduction in Payment Limits; Change 
in Timing of Implementation of Prospective Payment System.--
            (1) Prospective payment system.--Section 1895 of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1395fff) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``for cost 
                reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 
                1999'' and inserting ``for portions of cost reporting 
                periods occurring on or after October 1, 2000''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(3)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking 
                      ``fiscal year 2000'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
                      2001'';
                          (ii) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking 
                      ``September 30, 1999'' and inserting ``September 
                      30, 2000''; and
                          (iii) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking 
                      ``fiscal year 2001'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
                      2002''.
            (2) Change in effective date.--Section 4603(d) of the 
        Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1395fff note) is amended 
        by striking ``cost reporting periods beginning on or after 
        October 1, 1999'' and inserting ``portions of cost reporting 
        periods occurring on or after October 1, 2000''.
            (3) Contingency reduction.--Section 4603(e) of the Balanced 
        Budget Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1395fff note) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``cost reporting periods described 
                in subsection (d), for such cost reporting periods'' and 
                inserting ``portions of cost reporting periods described 
                in subsection (d), for such portions''; and
                    (B) by striking ``September 30, 1999'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 2000''.

    (d) Change in Home Health Market Basket Increase.--
            (1) Interim payment system.--Section 1861(v)(1)(L) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(v)(1)(L)), as amended by 
        subsection (a)(3), is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:

    ``(ix) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subparagraph, in 
updating any limit under this subparagraph by a home health market 
basket index for cost reporting periods beginning during each of fiscal 
years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, the update otherwise provided shall be 
reduced by 1.1 percentage points.''.
            (2) Prospective payment system.--Section 1895(b)(3)(B) of 
        such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395fff(b)(3)(B)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``home health market 
                basket percentage increase'' and inserting ``home health 
                applicable increase percentage (as defined in clause 
                (ii))'';
                    (B) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); 
                and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                          ``(ii) Home health applicable increase 
                      percentage.--For purposes of this subparagraph, 
                      the term

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-915]]

                      `home health applicable increase percentage' 
                      means, with respect to--
                                    ``(I) fiscal year 2002 or 2003, the 
                                home health market basket percentage 
                                increase (as defined in clause (iii)) 
                                minus 1.1 percentage points; or
                                    ``(II) any subsequent fiscal year, 
                                the home health market basket percentage 
                                increase.''.

    (e) Exclusion of Additional Part B Costs From Determination of Part 
B Monthly Premium.--Section 1839 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395r) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting ``(except as provided 
        in subsection (g))'' after ``year that''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(g) In estimating the benefits and administrative costs which will 
be payable from the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund 
for a year for purposes of determining the monthly premium rate under 
subsection (a)(3), the Secretary shall exclude an estimate of any 
benefits and administrative costs attributable to the application of 
section 1861(v)(1)(L)(viii) or to the establishment under section 
1861(v)(1)(L)(i)(V) of a per visit limit at 106 percent of the median 
(instead of 105 percent of the median), but only to the extent payment 
for home health services under this title is not being made under
section 1895 (relating to prospective payment for home health 
services).''.

    (f) Reports on Summary of Research Conducted by the Secretary on the 
Prospective Payment System.--By not later than January 1, 1999, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report 
on the following matters:
            (1) Research.--A description of any research paid for by the 
        Secretary on the development of a prospective payment system for 
        home health services furnished under the medicare program under 
        title XVIII of the Social Security Act, and a summary of the 
        results of such research.
            (2) Schedule for implementation of system.--The Secretary's 
        schedule for the implementation of the prospective payment 
        system for home health services under section 1895 of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395fff).

    (g) MedPAC Reports.--
            (1) Review of secretary's report.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        submits to Congress the report under subsection (f), the 
        Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (established under section 
        1805 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395b-6)) shall 
        submit to Congress a report describing the Commission's analysis 
        of the Secretary's report, and shall include the Commission's 
        recommendations with respect to the matters contained in such 
        report.
            (2) Annual report.--The Commission shall include in its 
        annual report to Congress for June 1999 an analysis of whether 
        changes in law made by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, as 
        modified by the amendments made by this section, with respect to 
        payments for home health services furnished under the medicare 
        program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act, impede 
        access to such services by individuals entitled to benefits 
        under such program.

    (h) GAO Audit of Research Expenditures.--The Comptroller General of 
the United States shall conduct an audit of sums

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-916]]

obligated or expended by the Health Care Financing Administration for 
the research described in subsection (f)(1), and of the data, reports, 
proposals, or other information provided by such research.
    (i)  <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395x note.>> Prompt Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        shall promptly issue (without regard to chapter 8 of title 5, 
        United States Code) such regulations or program memoranda as may 
        be necessary to effect the amendments made by this section for 
        cost reporting periods beginning during fiscal year 1999.
            (2) Use of payment amounts and limits from published 
        tables.--
                    (A) Per beneficiary limits.--In effecting the 
                amendments made by subsection (a) for cost reporting 
                periods beginning in fiscal year 1999, the ``median'' 
                referred to in section 1861(v)(1)(L)(vi)(I) of the 
                Social Security Act for such periods shall be the 
                national standardized per beneficiary limitation 
                specified in Table 3C published in the Federal Register 
                on August 11, 1998 (63 FR 42926) and the ``standardized 
                regional average of such costs'' referred to in section 
                1861(v)(1)(L)(v)(I) of such Act for a census division 
                shall be the sum of the labor and nonlabor components of 
                the standardized per beneficiary limitation for that 
                census division specified in Table 3B published in the 
                Federal Register on that date (63 FR 42926) (or in Table 
                3D as so published with respect to Puerto Rico and 
                Guam), and adjusted to reflect variations in wages among 
                different geographic areas as specified in Tables 4a and 
                4b published in the Federal Register on that date (63 FR 
                42926-42933).
                    (B) Per visit limits.--In effecting the amendments 
                made by subsection (b) for cost reporting periods 
                beginning in fiscal year 1999, the limits determined 
                under section 1861(v)(1)(L)(i)(V) of such Act for cost 
                reporting periods beginning during such fiscal year 
                shall be equal to the per visit limits as specified in 
                Table 3A published in the Federal Register on August 11, 
                1998 (63 FR 42925) and as subsequently corrected, 
                multiplied by \106/105\, and adjusted to reflect 
                variations in wages among different geographic areas as 
                specified in Tables 4a and 4b published in the Federal 
                Register on August 11, 1998 (63 FR 42926-42933).

              Subtitle B--Other Medicare-Related Provisions

SEC. 5201. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS TO IMPOSITION OF 
            PENALTIES FOR PROVIDING INDUCEMENTS TO BENEFICIARIES.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 1128A(i)(6) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a(i)(6)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(B) subject to subsection (n), any permissible 
                practice described in any subparagraph of section 
                1128B(b)(3) or in regulations issued by the 
                Secretary;''.

    (b) Special Provisions Concerning a Safe Harbor for Payment of 
Medigap Premiums of ESRD Beneficiaries.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-917]]

            (1) 2-year limitation.--Section 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1320a-7a) is amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(n)(1) Subparagraph (B) of subsection (i)(6) shall not apply to a 
practice described in paragraph (2) unless--
            ``(A) the Secretary, through the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services, promulgates a rule 
        authorizing such a practice as an exception to remuneration; and
            ``(B) the remuneration is offered or transferred by a person 
        under such rule during the 2-year period beginning on the date 
        the rule is first promulgated.

    ``(2) A practice described in this paragraph is a practice under 
which a health care provider or facility pays, in whole or in part, 
premiums for medicare supplemental policies for individuals entitled to 
benefits under part A of title XVIII pursuant to section 226A.''.
             <<NOTE: 42 USC 1320a-7a note.>> (2) GAO study and report on 
        impact of safe harbor on medigap policies.--If a permissible 
        practice is promulgated under section 1128A(n)(1)(A) of the 
        Social Security Act (as added by paragraph (1)), the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall conduct a study that compares 
        any disproportionate impact on specific issuers of medicare 
        supplemental policies (including the impact on premiums for non-
        ESRD medicare beneficiaries enrolled in such policies) due to 
        adverse selection in enrolling medicare ESRD beneficiaries 
        before the enactment of the Health Insurance Portability and 
        Accountability Act of 1996 and 1 year after the date of 
        promulgation of such permissible practice under section 
        1128A(n)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act. Not later than 18 
        months after the date of promulgation of such practice, the 
        Comptroller General shall submit a report to Congress on such 
        study and shall include in the report recommendations concerning 
        whether the time limitation imposed under section 1128A(n)(1)(B) 
        of such Act should be extended.

    (c) Extension of Advisory Opinion Authority.--Section 1128D(b)(2)(A) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7d(b)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting ``or 
section 1128A(i)(6)'' after ``1128B(b)''.
    (d)  <<NOTE: 42 USC 1320a-7a note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

    (e) Interim <<NOTE: 42 USC 1320a-7a note.>> Final Rulemaking 
Authority.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services may promulgate 
regulations that take effect on an interim basis, after notice and 
pending opportunity for public comment, in order to implement the 
amendments made by this section in a timely manner.

SEC. 5202. EXPANSION OF MEMBERSHIP OF MEDPAC TO 17.

    (a) In General.--Section 1805(c)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395b-6(c)(1)), as added by section 4022 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997, is amended by striking ``15'' and inserting ``17''.
     <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395b-6 note.>> (b) Initial Terms of Additional 
Members.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of staggering the initial 
        terms of members of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission 
        (under section 1805(c)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395b-6(c)(3)), 
        the initial terms of the two additional members of

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-918]]

        the Commission provided for by the amendment under subsection 
        (a) are as follows:
                    (A) One member shall be appointed for one year.
                    (B) One member shall be appointed for two years.
            (2) Commencement of terms.--Such terms shall begin on May 1, 
        1999.

                       Subtitle C--Revenue Offsets

SEC. 5301. TAX TREATMENT OF CASH OPTION FOR QUALIFIED PRIZES.

    (a) In General.--Section 451 (relating to taxable year for which 
items of gross income included) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) Special Rule for Cash Options For Receipt of Qualified 
Prizes.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this title, in the case 
        of an individual on the cash receipts and disbursements method 
        of accounting, a qualified prize option shall be disregarded in 
        determining the taxable year for which any portion of the 
        qualified
prize is properly includible in gross income of the taxpayer.
            ``(2) Qualified prize option; qualified prize.--For purposes 
        of this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified prize option' 
                means an option which--
                          ``(i) entitles an individual to receive a 
                      single cash payment in lieu of receiving a 
                      qualified prize (or remaining portion thereof), 
                      and
                          ``(ii) is exercisable not later than 60 days 
                      after such individual becomes entitled to the 
                      qualified prize.
                    ``(B) Qualified prize.--The term `qualified prize' 
                means any prize or award which--
                          ``(i) is awarded as a part of a contest, 
                      lottery, jackpot, game, or other similar 
                      arrangement,
                          ``(ii) does not relate to any past services 
                      performed by the recipient and does not require 
                      the recipient to perform any substantial future 
                      service, and
                          ``(iii) is payable over a period of at least 
                      10 years.
            ``(3) Partnership, etc.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
        application of this subsection in the case of a partnership or 
        other pass-through entity consisting entirely of individuals 
        described in paragraph (1).''

     <<NOTE: Applicability. 26 USC 451 note.>> (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendment made by this section shall 
        apply to any prize to which a person first becomes entitled 
        after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Transition rule.--The amendment made by this section 
        shall apply to any prize to which a person first becomes 
        entitled on or before the date of enactment of this Act, except 
        that in determining whether an option is a qualified prize 
        option as defined in section 451(h)(2)(A) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by such amendment)--
                    (A) clause (ii) of such section 451(h)(2)(A) shall 
                not apply, and
                    (B) such option shall be treated as a qualified 
                prize option if it is exercisable only during all or 
                part of the 18-month period beginning on July 1, 1999.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2681-919]]

                   DIVISION K--PAY-AS-YOU-GO PROVISION

    Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set 
forth in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
accompanying Conference Report No. 105-217, legislation in section 103 
of Division A and in divisions C through J of this Act that would have 
been estimated by the Office of Management and Budget as changing direct 
spending or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 were it included in an Act other 
than an appropriation Act shall be treated as direct spending or 
receipts legislation, as appropriate, under section 252 of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999''.

    Approved October 21, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4328 (S. 2307):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-648 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-825 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-249 accompanying S. 2307 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            July 29, considered and passed House.
            July 30, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 2307.
            Oct. 20, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 21, Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>