Public Law 118-42
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2024, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 9, 2024 -  [H.R. 4366]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2024.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2024''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Explanatory statement.
Sec. 5. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 6. Availability of funds.

    DIVISION A--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Department of Defense
Title II--Department of Veterans Affairs
Title III--Related Agencies
Title IV--General Provisions

       DIVISION B--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
      ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Agricultural Programs
Title II--Farm Production and Conservation Programs
Title III--Rural Development Programs
Title IV--Domestic Food Programs
Title V--Foreign Assistance and Related Programs
Title VI--Related Agencies and Food and Drug Administration
Title VII--General Provisions

      DIVISION C--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Department of Commerce
Title II--Department of Justice
Title III--Science
Title IV--Related Agencies
Title V--General Provisions

     DIVISION D--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Corps of Engineers--Civil
Title II--Department of the Interior
Title III--Department of Energy
Title IV--Independent Agencies
Title V--General Provisions

    DIVISION E--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Department of the Interior

[[Page 138 STAT. 26]]

Title II--Environmental Protection Agency
Title III--Related Agencies
Title IV--General Provisions

 DIVISION F--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

Title I--Department of Transportation
Title II--Department of Housing and Urban Development
Title III--Related Agencies
Title IV--General Provisions--This Act

                        DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS

Title I--Health and Human Services
Title II--Amending Compacts of Free Association
Title III--Extensions and Other Matters
Title IV--Budgetary Effects

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>> REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.

    The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in the Senate 
section of the Congressional Record on or about March 5, 2024, and 
submitted by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
shall have the same effect with respect to the allocation of funds and 
implementation of divisions A through F of this Act as if it were a 
joint explanatory statement of a committee of conference.
SEC. 5. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2024.
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: President.>> AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.

    Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
repurposed, rescinded, or transferred, if applicable) only if the 
President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.


__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 27]]

   DIVISION A-- <<NOTE: Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024.>> MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, 
VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction 
and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander 
in Chief, $2,022,775,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of this amount, 
not to exceed $398,145,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as 
authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Army determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, $522,220,000 shall be for the 
projects and activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table 
under the heading ``Military Construction, Army'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for 
such purposes.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $5,531,369,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2028:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of this 
amount, not to exceed $711,505,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Secretary of the Navy determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $335,563,000 shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table under the heading 
``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for 
such purposes.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized

[[Page 138 STAT. 28]]

by law, $2,741,424,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of this amount, 
not to exceed $567,874,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of the Air Force determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $193,610,000 shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table under the heading 
``Military Construction, Air Force'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes.

                   Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real 
property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other 
than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$3,161,782,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028:  Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the 
appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of the amount, not 
to exceed $347,545,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, $36,100,000 shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table under the heading 
``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $620,647,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2028:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of the 
amount, not to exceed $79,221,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Director of the Army National Guard determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the 
amount

[[Page 138 STAT. 29]]

made available under this heading, $270,461,000 shall be for the 
projects and activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table 
under the heading ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'' in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise 
available for such purposes.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $295,526,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2028:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of the 
amount, not to exceed $68,454,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Director of the Air National Guard determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, $123,804,000 shall be for the 
projects and activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table 
under the heading ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'' in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise 
available for such purposes.

                   Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, 
and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $151,076,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2028:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of the amount, 
not to exceed $27,389,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $44,000,000 shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table under the heading 
``Military Construction, Army Reserve'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes.

                   Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $51,291,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2028:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> That, of the 
amount, not to exceed $6,495,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design,

[[Page 138 STAT. 30]]

and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $331,572,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2028:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>>  That, of the amount, 
not to exceed $14,646,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $40,000,000 shall be for the projects and 
activities, and in the amounts, specified in the table under the heading 
``Military Construction, Air Force Reserve'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), in addition to amounts otherwise available for 
such purposes.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                       Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $293,434,000, to remain available until expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $489,174,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $304,895,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2028.

[[Page 138 STAT. 31]]

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by 
law, $395,485,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $277,142,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2028.

     Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as 
authorized by law, $373,854,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $237,097,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2028.

           Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by 
law, $324,386,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $50,785,000.

                          Department of Defense

                     Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$6,611,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

                          Department of Defense

             Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund, $496,000, to remain available until

[[Page 138 STAT. 32]]

expended, for unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to 
section 2883 of title 10, United States Code, providing alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military unaccompanied housing and 
supporting facilities.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Contracts. Approval.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this title shall be expended for payments under a cost-
plus-a-fixed-fee contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
$25,000, to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, 
without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense 
setting forth the reasons therefor.

    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction shall 
be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Funds made available in this 
title for construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of 
access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to the 
national defense by the Secretary of Defense.

    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  None of the funds made available 
in this title shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in 
excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army Corps of 
Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where 
there is a determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases 
negotiated by the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney 
General; (3) where the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as 
otherwise determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public 
interest.

    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which funds 
have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  None of the funds made available 
in this title for minor construction may be used to transfer or relocate 
any activity from one base or installation to another, without prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    Sec. 108. <<NOTE: Steel.>>  None of the funds made available in this 
title may be used for the procurement of steel for any construction 
project or activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such steel 
procurement.

    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  None of the funds made available 
in this title may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.

    Sec. 111. <<NOTE: Contracts. Japan.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this title may be obligated for architect and engineer 
contracts estimated by the

[[Page 138 STAT. 33]]

Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with host 
nation firms.

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Kwajalein Atoll. Contracts.>>  None of the funds 
made available in this title for military construction in the United 
States territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein 
Atoll, or in countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award 
any contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a 
foreign contractor:  Provided, That this section shall not be applicable 
to contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid 
of a United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and 
responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent:  
Provided further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards 
for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest 
responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese contractor.

    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Notification. Military exercise. Time period.>>  
The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate committees of both 
Houses of Congress, including the Committees on Appropriations, of plans 
and scope of any proposed military exercise involving United States 
personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for 
construction, either temporary or permanent, are anticipated to exceed 
$100,000.

    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, if 
the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117. <<NOTE: Time periods. Notifications. Determination.>>  
Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as may be determined by 
the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: (1) the Department of 
Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for 
construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same period of time as 
amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or (2) the

[[Page 138 STAT. 34]]

Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund 
from amounts appropriated for construction of military unaccompanied 
housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes and for the same period of time as 
amounts appropriated directly to the Fund:  Provided, That 
appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to cover 
the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the Department of 
Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of 
title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative means of 
acquiring and improving military family housing, military unaccompanied 
housing, and supporting facilities.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated with the 
Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). 
Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be available for the 
same purposes and for the same time period as the fund to which 
transferred.
    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2821 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available in this title for operation and 
maintenance of family housing shall be the exclusive source of funds for 
repair and maintenance of all family housing units, including general or 
flag officer quarters:  Provided, <<NOTE: Time 
periods. Notifications.>>  That not more than $35,000 per unit may be 
spent annually for the maintenance and repair of any general or flag 
officer quarters without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact 
notification shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due 
to costs associated with environmental remediation that could not be 
reasonably anticipated at the time of the budget submission:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Under Secretary of Defense 
(Comptroller) is to report annually to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress all operation and maintenance expenditures 
for each individual general or flag officer quarters for the prior 
fiscal year.

    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United States 
Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for the 
purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121. <<NOTE: Time period. Determination.>>  During the 5-year 
period after appropriations available in this Act to the Department of 
Defense for military construction and family housing operation and 
maintenance and construction have expired for obligation, upon a 
determination that such appropriations will not be necessary for the 
liquidation of obligations or for making authorized adjustments to such 
appropriations for

[[Page 138 STAT. 35]]

obligations incurred during the period of availability of such 
appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may be 
transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense'', to be merged with and to be available for the 
same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 122.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred among 
projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of April 2021, as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
    Sec. 124.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, to remain available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $8,214,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $182,150,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $166,300,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $62,400,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', $66,815,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $5,200,000; 
        and
            ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $23,000,000:

  Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction and cost to complete projects identified in the respective 
military department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 2024 
submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That such projects are subject 
to authorization prior to obligation and expenditure of funds to carry 
out construction:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure 
plan.>>  That not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the military department concerned, or their designee, shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this section.

    Sec. 125. <<NOTE: Allotment. Contracts.>>  All amounts appropriated 
to the ``Department of Defense--Military Construction, Army'', 
``Department of Defense--Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
``Department of Defense--Military Construction, Air Force'', and 
``Department of Defense--Military Construction, Defense-Wide'' accounts 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in a National Defense 
Authorization Act specified for fiscal year 2024 in the funding table in 
section 4601 of that Act shall be immediately available and allotted to 
contract for the full scope of authorized projects.

    Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding section 116 of this Act, funds made 
available in this Act or any available unobligated balances from prior 
appropriations Acts may be obligated before October 1, 2025 for fiscal 
year 2017, 2018, and 2019 military construction projects for which 
project authorization has not lapsed or for which

[[Page 138 STAT. 36]]

authorization is extended for fiscal year 2024 by a National Defense 
Authorization Act:  Provided, That no amounts may be obligated pursuant 
to this section from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For the purposes of this Act, the 
term ``congressional defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 128.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified for planning and design and unspecified minor 
construction, for improving military installation resilience, to remain 
available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $15,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $7,500,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $7,500,000:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for 
funds provided under this section.

    Sec. 129.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified for planning and design and unspecified minor 
construction for construction improvements to Department of Defense 
laboratory facilities, to remain available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $10,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $10,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $10,000,000:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That not later than 
60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for 
funds provided under this section.

    Sec. 130.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
Force'', $150,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028, for 
expenses incurred as a result of natural disasters:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> That not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air 
Force, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds 
provided under this section.

    Sec. 131.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified for planning and design for child development centers, 
to remain available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $15,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $15,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $15,000,000:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> That not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
military department concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations

[[Page 138 STAT. 37]]

of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided under 
this section.

    Sec. 132.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified for planning and design, for barracks, to remain 
available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $15,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $15,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $15,000,000:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> That not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
military department concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section.

    Sec. 133.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
Force'', $16,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028, for 
cost increases identified subsequent to the fiscal year 2024 budget 
request for authorized major construction projects:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That not later than 60 
days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, or 
their designee, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided under this 
section.

    Sec. 134.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified for unspecified minor construction for demolition, to 
remain available until September 30, 2028:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $15,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $15,000,000; and
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $15,000,000:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That not later than 
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
military department concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Approvals.>> That the Secretary of the military 
department concerned may not obligate or expend any funds prior to 
approval by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
of the expenditure plan required by this section.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 135.  Of the proceeds credited to the Department of Defense 
Family Housing Improvement Fund pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(D) of 
section 2883 of title 10, United States Code, pursuant to a Department 
of Navy investment, the Secretary of Defense shall transfer $19,000,000 
to the Secretary of the Navy under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of 
such section for use by the Secretary of the Navy as provided in 
paragraph (1) of such subsection until expended.
    Sec. 136.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Defense-Wide'', $37,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2028:  Provided,  That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects specified in a National Defense Authorization Act 
for fiscal year 2024 in the funding table in section 4601 of that Act:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> That not later 
than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, or 
their designee, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations

[[Page 138 STAT. 38]]

of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided under 
this section.

    Sec. 137.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air 
National Guard'', $83,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2028, for planning and design and authorized major construction projects 
at future foreign military training sites:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That not later than 60 
days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, or 
their designee, shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds provided under this 
section.

    Sec. 138.  <<NOTE: Cuba.>> None of the funds made available by this 
Act may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the United 
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.





__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 39]]

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of veterans 
and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized by section 
107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized 
by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code; and 
burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program for Survivors, 
emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service credits 
and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life insurance 
policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of the 
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and for 
other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, and 
chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$15,072,388,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available on October 1, 
2023, to remain available until expended; and, in addition, 
$182,310,515,000, which shall become available on October 1, 2024, to 
remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That not to exceed $22,109,000 of the 
amount made available for fiscal year 2025 under this heading shall be 
reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', and ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
appropriation:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That such 
sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be 
reimbursed to ``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment the funding 
of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided to 
pensioners as authorized.

                          readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or on 
behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 
39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$374,852,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available on October 1, 
2023, to remain available until expended; and, in addition, 
$13,399,805,000, which shall become available on October 1, 2024, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

[[Page 138 STAT. 40]]

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21 of 
title 38, United States Code, $12,701,000, which shall be in addition to 
funds previously appropriated under this heading that became available 
on October 1, 2023, to remain available until expended; and, in 
addition, $135,119,422, which shall become available on October 1, 2024, 
to remain available until expended.

                  veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2024, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $316,742,419.

             vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $78,337, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,026,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $460,698, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $2,718,546.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of Defense 
for the cost of overseas employee mail, $3,899,000,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That expenses for services and 
assistance authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of 
section 3104(a) of title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs determines are necessary to enable entitled veterans: 
(1)

[[Page 138 STAT. 41]]

to the maximum extent feasible, to become employable and to obtain and 
maintain suitable employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in 
daily living, shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, That, 
of the funds made available under this heading, not to exceed 10 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2025.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 1705(a) 
of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment in 
facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and including 
medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food services, 
and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under title 38, 
United States Code, assistance and support services for caregivers as 
authorized by section 1720G of title 38, United States Code, loan 
repayments authorized by section 604 of the Caregivers and Veterans 
Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 
38 U.S.C. 7681 note), monthly assistance allowances authorized by 
section 322(d) of title 38, United States Code, grants authorized by 
section 521A of title 38, United States Code, and administrative 
expenses necessary to carry out sections 322(d) and 521A of title 38, 
United States Code, and hospital care and medical services authorized by 
section 1787 of title 38, United States Code; $71,000,000,000, plus 
reimbursements, which shall become available on October 1, 2024, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That, of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2024, under this heading, 
$2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2026:  
Provided further, That of the $74,004,000,000 that became available on 
October 1, 2023, previously appropriated under this heading in division 
J of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328), 
$3,034,205,000 is hereby rescinded:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall give 
priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to veterans 
in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Drugs and drug abuse.>>  That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may authorize 
the dispensing of prescription drugs from Veterans Health Administration 
facilities to enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions 
based on requirements established by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That the implementation of the program described in the previous proviso 
shall incur no additional cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure 
that sufficient amounts appropriated under this heading for medical 
supplies and equipment are available for the acquisition of prosthetics 
designed specifically

[[Page 138 STAT. 42]]

for female veterans:  Provided further, That nothing in section 2044(e) 
of title 38, United States Code, may be construed as limiting amounts 
that may be made available under this heading for fiscal years 2024 and 
2025 in this or prior Acts.

                         medical community care

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $20,382,000,000, plus reimbursements, which shall 
become available on October 1, 2024, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2024, under this heading, $2,000,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2026:  Provided further, That of the 
$33,000,000,000 that became available on October 1, 2023, previously 
appropriated under this heading in division J of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328), $2,657,977,000 is hereby 
rescinded.

                     medical support and compliance

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$11,800,000,000, plus reimbursements, which shall become available on 
October 1, 2024, and shall remain available until September 30, 2025:  
Provided, That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2024, under 
this heading, $350,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2026:  Provided further, That of the $12,300,000,000 that became 
available on October 1, 2023, previously appropriated under this heading 
in division J of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 
117-328), $1,550,000,000 is hereby rescinded.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by the 
hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases of 
facilities; and for laundry services; $149,485,000, which shall be in 
addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that became 
available on October 1,

[[Page 138 STAT. 43]]

2023; and, in addition, $9,400,000,000, plus reimbursements, which shall 
become available on October 1, 2024, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2024, under this heading, $500,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2026.

                     medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of title 
38, United States Code, $943,000,000, plus reimbursements, shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts appropriated under 
this heading are available for prosthetic research specifically for 
female veterans, and for toxic exposure research.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $480,000,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2025.

                       Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $475,000,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be transferred to ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                        board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$287,000,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2025.

                     information technology systems

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information

[[Page 138 STAT. 44]]

systems and operational information systems; for pay and associated 
costs; and for the capital asset acquisition of information technology 
systems, including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$6,401,000,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,606,977,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed 3 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That 
$4,668,373,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, of which not to 
exceed 5 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2025, and of 
which $75,288,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2028, for 
the purpose of facility activations related to projects funded by the 
``Construction, Major Projects'', ``Construction, Minor Projects'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``National Cemetery Administration'', ``General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', and ``General 
Administration'' accounts:  Provided further, That $125,650,000 shall be 
for information technology systems development, and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Approvals.>>  That amounts made available for salaries 
and expenses, operations and maintenance, and information technology 
systems development may be transferred among the three subaccounts after 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That amounts made 
available for the ``Information Technology Systems'' account for 
development may be transferred among projects or to newly defined 
projects:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period. Approvals.>> That no 
project may be increased or decreased by more than $3,000,000 of cost 
prior to submitting a request to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, 
or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
information technology systems development shall be for the projects, 
and in the amounts, specified under this heading in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act).

veterans <<NOTE: Reports.>> electronic health record

    For activities related to implementation, preparation, development, 
interface, management, rollout, and maintenance of a Veterans Electronic 
Health Record system, including contractual costs associated with 
operations authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
and salaries and expenses of employees hired under titles 5 and 38, 
United States Code, $1,334,142,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2026:  Provided, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress quarterly 
reports detailing obligations, expenditures, and deployment 
implementation by facility, including any changes from the deployment 
plan or schedule:  Provided further, That the funds provided in this 
account shall only be available to the Office of the Deputy Secretary, 
to be administered by that Office:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective 
date.>> That 25 percent of the funds made available under this heading 
shall not be available until July 1, 2024, and are contingent upon the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs--

[[Page 138 STAT. 45]]

            (1) providing the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress a report, no later than 60 days after 
        enactment of this Act on the status of issues that caused the 
        delayed deployment of the new electronic health record to 
        additional sites that was announced on April 21, 2023;
            (2) <<NOTE: Outline.>> providing the Committees on 
        Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the reset 
        process as of June 1, 2024, including an outline of the 
        measurable operational metrics that will be used to determine 
        when it is appropriate to re-start deployments, progress on 
        achieving those metrics, progress toward clinical and product 
        standardization, and the current performance at all Department 
        of Veterans Affairs facilities using the new electronic health 
        record on or before September 2023 compared to pre-deployment 
        baselines for metrics impacted by the deployment of the new 
        electronic health record; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  certifying in writing no later 
        than 30 days prior to July 1, 2024, whether the system is 
        stable, ready, and optimized for further deployment at VA sites, 
        and if not, an estimate of the timeline required to begin 
        further deployments.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $296,000,000, of which 
not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
2025.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is more than 
the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States 
Code, or where funds for a project were made available in a previous 
major project appropriation, $961,218,560, of which $453,314,560 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2028, and of which $507,904,000 
shall remain available until expended, of which $110,000,000 shall be 
available for seismic improvement projects and seismic program 
management activities, including for projects that would otherwise be 
funded by the Construction, Minor Projects, Medical Facilities or 
National Cemetery Administration accounts:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Approval.>> That except for advance 
planning activities, including needs assessments which may or may not 
lead to capital investments, and other capital asset management related 
activities, including portfolio development and management activities, 
and planning, cost estimating, and design for major medical facility 
projects and major medical facility leases and investment strategy 
studies funded through the advance planning fund and the planning

[[Page 138 STAT. 46]]

and design activities funded through the design fund, staffing expenses, 
and funds provided for the purchase, security, and maintenance of land 
for the National Cemetery Administration and the Veterans Health 
Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be used for any project that has 
not been notified to Congress through the budgetary process or that has 
not been approved by the Congress through statute, joint resolution, or 
in the explanatory statement accompanying such Act and presented to the 
President at the time of enrollment:  Provided further, That funds 
provided for the Veterans Health Administration through the land 
acquisition line item shall be only for projects included on the five 
year development plan notified to Congress through the budgetary 
process:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That such sums as 
may be necessary shall be available to reimburse the ``General 
Administration'' account for payment of salaries and expenses of all 
Office of Construction and Facilities Management employees to support 
the full range of capital infrastructure services provided, including 
minor construction and leasing services:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Deadlines.>> That funds made available under 
this heading for fiscal year 2024, for each approved project shall be 
obligated: (1) by the awarding of a construction documents contract by 
September 30, 2024; and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract 
by September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a written report on any 
approved major construction project for which obligations are not 
incurred within the time limitations established above:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the requirements of section 8104(a) of 
title 38, United States Code, amounts made available under this heading 
for seismic improvement projects and seismic program management 
activities shall be available for the completion of both new and 
existing seismic projects of the Department.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage 
system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the estimated 
cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, $692,000,000, of 
which $612,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2028, and 
of which $80,000,000 shall remain available until expended, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where the 
estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in such 
section:  Provided, That funds made available under this heading shall 
be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department

[[Page 138 STAT. 47]]

which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any natural 
disaster or catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent 
or to minimize further loss by such causes.

        grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $171,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $60,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                        Administrative Provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2024 for ``Compensation 
and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and ``Veterans Insurance and 
Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary to any other of the 
mentioned appropriations:  Provided, <<NOTE: Approval. Time 
period.>> That, before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and such 
Committees issue an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days 
has elapsed.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202. <<NOTE: Notifications. Approvals.>>  Amounts made 
available for the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2024, 
in this or any other Act, under the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical 
Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
Facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts:  Provided, 
That any transfers among the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community 
Care'', and ``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or 
less of the total amount appropriated to the account in this or any 
other Act may take place subject to notification from the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, 
That any transfers among the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community 
Care'', and ``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 
percent, or exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may 
take place only after the Secretary requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That any 
transfers to or from the ``Medical Facilities'' account may take place 
only after the Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued.

[[Page 138 STAT. 48]]

    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and ``Construction, 
Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for or 
toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  No appropriations in this title 
shall be available for hospitalization or examination of any persons 
(except beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or examination 
under the laws providing such benefits to veterans, and persons 
receiving such treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, 
United States Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement 
of the cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the 
``Medical Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

    Sec. 206. <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Appropriations available in this 
title for ``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment of 
prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law against 
the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter of fiscal 
year 2023.

    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be available 
to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations 
accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 3712(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable only from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, during fiscal year 2024, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall, from the National Service Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1920 of title 38, United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life 
Insurance Fund under section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and 
the United States Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of 
title 38, United States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' and ``Information 
Technology Systems'' accounts for the cost of administration of the 
insurance programs financed through those accounts:  Provided, That 
reimbursement shall be made only from the surplus earnings accumulated 
in such an insurance program during fiscal year 2024 that are available 
for dividends in that program after claims have been paid and 
actuarially determined reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, 
That if the cost of administration of such an insurance program exceeds 
the amount of surplus earnings accumulated in that program, 
reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such surplus earnings: 
 Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That the Secretary shall 
determine the cost of administration for fiscal year 2024 which is 
properly allocable to the provision of each such insurance program and 
to the provision of any total disability income insurance included in 
that insurance program.

[[Page 138 STAT. 49]]

    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services shall be 
available until expended.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management, Diversity and Inclusion, the Office of 
Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication, and the Alternative 
Dispute Resolution function within the Office of Human Resources and 
Administration for all services provided at rates which will recover 
actual costs but not to exceed $145,408,000 for the Office of Resolution 
Management, Diversity and Inclusion, $6,960,000 for the Office of 
Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication, and $7,772,000 for the 
Alternative Dispute Resolution function within the Office of Human 
Resources and Administration:  Provided, <<NOTE: Cost estimates.>> That 
payments may be made in advance for services to be furnished based on 
estimated costs:  Provided further, That amounts received shall be 
credited to the ``General Administration'' and ``Information Technology 
Systems'' accounts for use by the office that provided the service:  
Provided further, That the amounts made available for the Office of 
Resolution Management, Diversity and Inclusion under this section may be 
used for implementation of section 402 of division U of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328) and the amendments made by 
such section 402.

    Sec. 211. <<NOTE: Disclosure. Reimbursement.>>  No funds of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs shall be available for hospital care, 
nursing home care, or medical services provided to any person under 
chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, for a non-service-connected 
disability described in section 1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that 
person has disclosed to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form 
as the Secretary may require, current, accurate third-party 
reimbursement information for purposes of section 1729 of such title:  
Provided, That the Secretary may recover, in the same manner as any 
other debt due the United States, the reasonable charges for such care 
or services from any person who does not make such disclosure as 
required:  Provided further, That any amounts so recovered for care or 
services provided in a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the 
Secretary during the fiscal year in which amounts are received.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for construction 
(including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, and 
improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for the 
use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized are in 
addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 50]]

            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited into the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 215. <<NOTE: Contracts. Alaska. Native Americans.>>  The 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into agreements with Federally 
Qualified Health Centers in the State of Alaska and Indian Tribes and 
Tribal organizations which are party to the Alaska Native Health Compact 
with the Indian Health Service, to provide healthcare, including 
behavioral health and dental care, to veterans in rural 
Alaska. <<NOTE: Requirements. Compliance.>> The Secretary shall require 
participating veterans and facilities to comply with all appropriate 
rules and regulations, as established by the 
Secretary. <<NOTE: Definition.>> The term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean 
those lands which are not within the boundaries of the municipality of 
Anchorage or the Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited into the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 217. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 30 days after the end 
of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report 
on the financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly 
reporting'', under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``Board of Veterans Appeals'', ``General 
Administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for 
fiscal year 2024 may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That such transfers may not 
result in a more than 10 percent aggregate increase in the total amount 
made available by this Act for the ``Information Technology Systems'' 
account:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Approvals.>> That, before a transfer 
may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to 
make the transfer and an approval is issued.

[[Page 138 STAT. 51]]

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 219.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2024 for ``Medical Services'', ``Medical 
Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical 
Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor Projects'', and ``Information 
Technology Systems'', up to $430,532,000, plus reimbursements, may be 
transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2571) and may be used for operation of the 
facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4500):  Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That section <<NOTE: Repeal. 136 Stat. 
4961.>>  220 of title II of division J of Public Law 117-328 is 
repealed.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Of the amounts appropriated to 
the Department of Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 
2024, for ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical 
Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', up to 
$456,547,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2571) and may be used for operation of the facilities designated as 
combined Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
(Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 221.  Such sums as may be deposited into the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-
84; 123 Stat. 2571); and (2) for operations of the facilities designated 
as combined Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of 
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal

[[Page 138 STAT. 52]]

Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding section 1704(b)(3) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), amounts 
transferred to the Joint Department of Defense--Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund shall remain available until 
expended.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as 
authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain 
available until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of 
title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to replace the current 
system by which the Veterans Integrated Service Networks select and 
contract for diabetes monitoring supplies and equipment.
    Sec. 224. <<NOTE: Notifications. Deadlines.>>  The Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of all bid savings in a major construction project 
that total at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of 
the project, whichever is less:  Provided, That such notification shall 
occur within 14 days of a contract identifying the programmed amount:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to the 
obligation of such bid savings and shall describe the anticipated use of 
such savings.

    Sec. 225. <<NOTE: Approvals.>>  None of the funds made available for 
``Construction, Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of 
the scope specified for that project in the original justification data 
provided to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations 
unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

    Sec. 226. <<NOTE: Reports. Data.>>  Not later than 30 days after the 
end of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
quarterly report containing performance measures and data from each 
Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Office:  Provided, That, at a 
minimum, the report shall include the direction contained in the section 
entitled ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 114-223:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>> That the report shall also include 
information on the number of appeals pending at the Veterans Benefits 
Administration as well as the Board of Veterans Appeals on a quarterly 
basis.

    Sec. 227. <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  The Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall provide written notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 15 days prior to 
organizational changes which result in the transfer of 25 or more full-
time equivalents from one organizational unit of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to another.

[[Page 138 STAT. 53]]

    Sec. 228. <<NOTE: Time period. Notification.>>  The Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall provide on a quarterly basis to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress notification of any single 
national outreach and awareness marketing campaign in which obligations 
exceed $1,000,000.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 229. <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, upon determination that such action is necessary to address 
needs of the Veterans Health Administration, may transfer to the 
``Medical Services'' account any discretionary appropriations made 
available for fiscal year 2024 in this title (except appropriations made 
to the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' 
account) or any discretionary unobligated balances within the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal year 2024, 
that were provided in advance by appropriations Acts:  Provided, That 
transfers <<NOTE: Approval.>> shall be made only with the approval of 
the Office of Management and Budget:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided in this section is in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided by law:  Provided further, That no amounts 
may be transferred from amounts that were designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless 
for higher priority items, based on emergent healthcare requirements, 
than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the 
item for which funds are requested has been denied by Congress:  
Provided further, That, upon determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from an appropriation are not necessary, such amounts may be 
transferred back to that appropriation and shall be available for the 
same purposes as originally appropriated:  
Provided <<NOTE: Approvals.>>  further, That before a transfer may take 
place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to 
make the transfer and receive approval of that request.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 230.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2024, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' 
accounts may be transferred between such accounts:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Approvals.>> before a transfer may take place, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and receive approval of that request.

    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram funds 
among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $7,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 232. <<NOTE: Suicide hotline.>> (a) The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 
1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code--
            (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
        immediate assistance from a trained professional; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 54]]

            (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
        of Suicidology.

    (b)(1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
enforce or otherwise carry out any Executive action that prohibits the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from appointing an individual to occupy a 
vacant civil service position, or establishing a new civil service 
position, at the Department of Veterans Affairs with respect to such a 
position relating to the hotline specified in subsection (a).
    (2) <<NOTE: Definitions.>> In this subsection--
            (A) the term ``civil service'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2101(1) of title 5, United States Code; and
            (B) the term ``Executive action'' includes--
                    (i) any Executive order, Presidential memorandum, or 
                other action by the President; and
                    (ii) any agency policy, order, or other directive.

    (c)(1) <<NOTE: Study. Time period. Analysis. Data.>> The Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a study on the effectiveness of the 
hotline specified in subsection (a) during the 5-year period beginning 
on January 1, 2016, based on an analysis of national suicide data and 
data collected from such hotline.

    (2) <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  At a minimum, the study required by 
paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) determine the number of veterans who contact the hotline 
        specified in subsection (a) and who receive follow up services 
        from the hotline or mental health services from the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs thereafter;
            (B) determine the number of veterans who contact the hotline 
        who are not referred to, or do not continue receiving, mental 
        health care who commit suicide; and
            (C) determine the number of veterans described in 
        subparagraph (A) who commit or attempt suicide.

    Sec. 233. <<NOTE: Effective date. Time period.>>  Effective during 
the period beginning on October 1, 2018, and ending on January 1, 2025, 
none of the funds made available to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by 
this or any other Act may be obligated or expended in contravention of 
the ``Veterans Health Administration Clinical Preventive Services 
Guidance Statement on the Veterans Health Administration's Screening for 
Breast Cancer Guidance'' published on May 10, 2017, as issued by the 
Veterans Health Administration National Center for Health Promotion and 
Disease Prevention.

    Sec. 234. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' account may be used to 
provide--
            (1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
        reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of a 
        covered veteran; or
            (2) adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.

    (b) <<NOTE: Definitions.>> In this section:
            (1) The term ``service-connected'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``covered veteran'' means a veteran, as such 
        term is defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code, 
        who has a service-connected disability that results in the 
        inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of 
        fertility treatment.
            (3) The term ``assisted reproductive technology'' means 
        benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a

[[Page 138 STAT. 55]]

        member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or 
        illness on active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of 
        title 10, United States Code, as described in the memorandum on 
        the subject of ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for 
        the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or 
        III) Active Duty Service Members'' issued by the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and 
        the guidance issued to implement such policy, including any 
        limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a 
        member except that--
                    (A) the time periods regarding embryo 
                cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) 
                and in part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; 
                and
                    (B) such term includes embryo cryopreservation and 
                storage without limitation on the duration of such 
                cryopreservation and storage.
            (4) The term ``adoption reimbursement'' means reimbursement 
        for the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is 
        finalized after the date of the enactment of this Act under the 
        same terms as apply under the adoption reimbursement program of 
        the Department of Defense, as authorized in Department of 
        Defense Instruction 1341.09, including the reimbursement limits 
        and requirements set forth in such instruction.

    (c) Amounts made available for the purposes specified in subsection 
(a) of this section are subject to the requirements for funds contained 
in section 508 of division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2018 (Public Law 115-141).
    Sec. 235.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 236. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Section 842 of Public Law 109-115 
shall not apply to conversion of an activity or function of the Veterans 
Health Administration, Veterans Benefits Administration, or National 
Cemetery Administration to contractor performance by a business concern 
that is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Indian Tribes as 
defined in section 5304(e) of title 25, United States Code, or one or 
more Native Hawaiian Organizations as defined in section 637(a)(15) of 
title 15, United States Code.

    Sec. 237. (a) <<NOTE: Discontinuation. Deadline. 38 USC note prec. 
5701.>> The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor, shall discontinue 
collecting and using Social Security account numbers to authenticate 
individuals in all information systems of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for all individuals not later than September 30, 2024.

    (b) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may collect and use a Social 
Security account number to identify an individual, in accordance with 
section 552a of title 5, United States Code, in an information system of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs if and only if the use of such number 
is necessary to:
            (1) obtain or provide information the Secretary requires 
        from an information system that is not under the jurisdiction of 
        the Secretary;

[[Page 138 STAT. 56]]

            (2) comply with a law, regulation, or court order;
            (3) perform anti-fraud activities; or
            (4) identify a specific individual where no adequate 
        substitute is available.

    (c) The matter in subsections (a) and (b) shall supersede section 
237 of division J of Public Law 117-328.
    Sec. 238. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  For funds provided to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2024 and 2025 for 
``Medical Services'', section 239 of division A of Public Law 114-223 
shall apply.

    Sec. 239.  None of the funds appropriated in this or prior 
appropriations Acts or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used to transfer any amounts from the Filipino 
Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to any other account within the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 240. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  Of the funds provided to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2024 and fiscal 
year 2025 for ``Medical Services'', funds may be used in each year to 
carry out and expand the child care program authorized by section 205 of 
Public Law 111-163, notwithstanding subsection (e) of such section.

    Sec. 241. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this title may be used by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to enter into an agreement related to resolving a 
dispute or claim with an individual that would restrict in any way the 
individual from speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any 
topic not otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law or 
required by Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of 
national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.

    Sec. 242. <<NOTE: Time periods. Applicability.>>  For funds provided 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2024 and 
2025, section 258 of division A of Public Law 114-223 shall apply.

    Sec. 243. <<NOTE: Records. Compliance.>>  (a) None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to deny 
an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access to any records, 
documents, or other materials available to the department or agency over 
which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or impede the access 
of the Inspector General to such records, documents, or other materials, 
under any provision of law, except a provision of law that expressly 
refers to such Inspector General and expressly limits the right of 
access.

    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide its 
Inspector General access to all records, documents, and other materials 
in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Each Inspector General covered by this 
section shall report to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
within 5 calendar days of any failure by any department or agency 
covered by this section to comply with this requirement.

    Sec. 244.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in a manner that would increase wait times for veterans who seek care at 
medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

[[Page 138 STAT. 57]]

    Sec. 245. <<NOTE: Notifications. Proposal. Deadline.>>  None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act to the 
Veterans Health Administration may be used in fiscal year 2024 to 
convert any program which received specific purpose funds in fiscal year 
2023 to a general purpose funded program unless the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs submits written notification of any such proposal to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 
days prior to any such action and an approval is issued by the 
Committees.

    Sec. 246. <<NOTE: Time periods. Applicability.>>  For funds provided 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs for each of fiscal year 2024 and 
2025, section 248 of division A of Public Law 114-223 shall apply.

    Sec. 247. <<NOTE: Research and development. Effective 
date. Animals. Approval. 38 USC 303 note.>> (a) None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to 
conduct research commencing on or after the date of enactment of this 
Act, that uses any canine, feline, or non-human primate unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs approves such research specifically and in 
writing pursuant to subsection (b).

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Certification.>> The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
may approve the conduct of research commencing on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act, using canines, felines, or non-human primates if 
the Secretary certifies that--
            (A) the scientific objectives of the research can only be 
        met by using such canines, felines, or non-human primates and 
        cannot be met using other animal models, in vitro models, 
        computational models, human clinical studies, or other research 
        alternatives;
            (B) such scientific objectives are necessary to advance 
        research benefiting veterans and are directly related to an 
        illness or injury that is combat-related as defined by 10 U.S.C. 
        1413(e);
            (C) the research is consistent with the revised Department 
        of Veterans Affairs canine research policy document dated 
        December 15, 2017, including any subsequent revisions to such 
        document; and
            (D) ethical considerations regarding minimizing the harm 
        experienced by canines, felines, or non-human primates are 
        included in evaluating the scientific necessity of the research.

    (2) The Secretary may not delegate the authority under this 
subsection.
    (c) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  If the Secretary approves any new research 
pursuant to subsection (b), not later than 30 days before the 
commencement of such research, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
a report describing--
            (1) the nature of the research to be conducted using 
        canines, felines, or non-human primates;
            (2) the date on which the Secretary approved the research;
            (3) the USDA pain category on the approved use;
            (4) the justification for the determination of the Secretary 
        that the scientific objectives of such research could only be 
        met using canines, felines, or non-human primates, and methods 
        used to make such determination;
            (5) the frequency and duration of such research; and
            (6) the protocols in place to ensure the necessity, safety, 
        and efficacy of the research, and animal welfare.

[[Page 138 STAT. 58]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and biannually thereafter, the Secretary 
shall submit to such Committees a report describing--
            (1) any research being conducted by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs using canines, felines, or non-human primates 
        as of the date of the submittal of the report;
            (2) the circumstances under which such research was 
        conducted using canines, felines, or non-human primates;
            (3) the justification for using canines, felines, or non-
        human primates to conduct such research;
            (4) the protocols in place to ensure the necessity, safety, 
        and efficacy of such research; and
            (5) the development and adoption of alternatives to canines, 
        felines, or non-human primate research.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadlines. Inspections.>>  Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs must submit to voluntary U.S. Department 
of Agriculture inspections of canine, feline, and non-human primate 
research facilities.

    (f) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall 
submit to such Committees a report describing --
            (1) any violations of the Animal Welfare Act, the Public 
        Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory 
        Animals, or other Department of Veterans Affairs policies 
        related to oversight of animal research found during that 
        quarter in VA research facilities;
            (2) immediate corrective actions taken; and
            (3) specific actions taken to prevent their recurrence.

    (g) <<NOTE: Plan. Deadline.>> The Department shall implement a plan 
under which the Secretary will eliminate the research conducted using 
canines, felines, or non-human primates by not later than 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 248. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this title to ensure that 
the ratio of veterans to full-time employment equivalents within any 
program of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, United 
States Code, does not exceed 125 veterans to one full-time employment 
equivalent.
    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
on the programs of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 
38, United States Code, including--
            (1) <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  an assessment of the veteran-to-
        staff ratio for each such program; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>>  recommendations for such 
        action as the Secretary considers necessary to reduce the 
        veteran-to-staff ratio for each such program.

    Sec. 249.  Amounts made available for the ``Veterans Health 
Administration, Medical Community Care'' account in this or any other 
Act for fiscal years 2024 and 2025 may be used for expenses that would 
otherwise be payable from the Veterans Choice Fund established by 
section 802 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, as 
amended (38 U.S.C. 1701 note).
    Sec. 250. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  Obligations and expenditures 
applicable to the ``Medical Services'' account in fiscal years 2017 
through 2019 for aid to state homes (as authorized by section 1741 of 
title 38, United

[[Page 138 STAT. 59]]

States Code) shall remain in the ``Medical Community Care'' account for 
such fiscal years.

    Sec. 251.  Of the amounts made available for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2024, in this or any other Act, under 
the ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical Services'', ``Veterans 
Health Administration--Medical Community Care'', ``Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Facilities'' accounts, $990,446,000 shall be 
made available for gender-specific care and programmatic efforts to 
deliver care for women veterans.
    Sec. 252.  Of the unobligated balances available in fiscal year 2024 
in the ``Recurring Expenses Transformational Fund'' established in 
section 243 of division J of Public Law 114-113, and in addition to any 
funds otherwise made available for such purposes in this, prior, or 
subsequent fiscal years, $646,000,000 shall be available for 
constructing, altering, extending, and improving medical facilities of 
the Veterans Health Administration, including all supporting activities 
and required contingencies, during the period of availability of the 
Fund:  Provided, <<NOTE: Execution plan. Approval. Time period.>> That 
prior to obligation of any of the funds provided in this section, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs must provide a plan for the execution of 
the funds appropriated in this section to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress and such Committees issue an 
approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

    Sec. 253. <<NOTE: Reports.>>   Not later than 30 days after the end 
of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
quarterly report on the status of section 8006 of the American Rescue 
Plan of 2021 (Public Law 117-2):  Provided, <<NOTE: Update. Expenditure 
plan.>> That, at a minimum, the report shall include an update on 
obligations by program, project or activity and a plan for expending the 
remaining funds.

    Sec. 254. <<NOTE: Expenditure plan.>>   Not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds 
made available through the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 (Public Law 
118-5) for the Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund for fiscal year 2024:  
Provided,  That the budget resource categories supporting the Veterans 
Health Administration shall be reported by the subcategories ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical and Prosthetic Research'':  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Update.>> That not later than 30 days after 
the end of each fiscal quarter, the Secretary shall submit a quarterly 
report on the status of the funds, including, at a minimum, an update on 
obligations by program, project or activity.

    Sec. 255. <<NOTE: Time period. Determination.>>  Any amounts 
transferred to the Secretary and administered by a corporation referred 
to in section 7364(b) of title 38, United States Code, between October 
1, 2017 and September 30, 2018 for purposes of carrying out an order 
placed with the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 1535 
of title 31, United States Code, that are available for obligation 
pursuant to section 7364(b)(1) of title 38, United States Code, are to 
remain available for the liquidation of valid obligations incurred by 
such corporation during the period of performance of such order, 
provided that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines that such 
amounts need to remain available for such liquidation.

[[Page 138 STAT. 60]]

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 256.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
under the heading ``Departmental Administration--Veterans Electronic 
Health Record'' in division J of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2023 (Public Law 117-328), $460,005,000 is hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 257. <<NOTE: Reports. Analysis. Urban and rural areas.>>  None 
of the funds in this or any other Act may be used to close Department of 
Veterans Affairs hospitals, domiciliaries, or clinics, conduct an 
environmental assessment, or to diminish healthcare services at existing 
Veterans Health Administration medical facilities as part of a planned 
realignment of services until the Secretary provides to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report including an 
analysis of how any such planned realignment of services will impact 
access to care for veterans living in rural or highly rural areas, 
including travel distances and transportation costs to access a 
Department medical facility and availability of local specialty and 
primary care.

    Sec. 258.  Unobligated balances available under the headings 
``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
may be obligated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for a facility 
pursuant to section 2(e)(1) of the Communities Helping Invest through 
Property and Improvements Needed for Veterans Act of 2016 (Public Law 
114-294; 38 U.S.C. 8103 note), as amended, to provide additional funds 
or to fund an escalation clause under such section of such Act:  
Provided, That <<NOTE: Obligation request. Approvals. Time 
period.>> before such unobligated balances are obligated pursuant to 
this section, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to 
obligate such unobligated balances and such Committees issue an 
approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  
Provided further, That the request <<NOTE: Notice.>>  to obligate such 
unobligated balances must provide Congress notice that the entity 
described in section 2(a)(2) of Public Law 114-294, as amended, has 
exhausted available cost containment approaches as set forth in the 
agreement under section 2(c) of such Public Law.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 259.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
under the heading ``Veterans Health Administration'' from prior 
appropriations Acts, including any funds transferred from the Medical 
Care Collections Fund to accounts under such heading, $1,951,750,000 is 
hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were provided under the heading ``Medical and Prosthetic 
Research'' or amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided <<NOTE: Rescission plan. Deadline.>> further, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a plan for rescinding amounts 
required by this section no later than 30 days after enactment of this 
Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 61]]

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 260.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs from prior appropriations Acts, 
the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following accounts in 
the amounts specified:
            ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
        Administration'', $30,000,000;
            ``General Administration'', $5,000,000;
            ``Board of Veterans Appeals'', $15,000,000;
            ``Information Technology Systems'', $15,000,000; and
            ``Construction, Major Projects'', $80,218,560:

  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    Sec. 261.  Amounts provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs 
under the heading ``Departmental Administration--Construction, Major 
Projects'' in title II of division F of the Further Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94) that were transferred to 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) pursuant to an interagency 
agreement for the major construction project in Alameda, CA, and that 
remain unobligated at the Corps, shall be immediately transferred back 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs and permanently rescinded, and an 
amount of additional new budget authority equivalent to the amount 
rescinded shall be appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 
2028, for the same purposes and under the same authorities for which 
such amounts were originally provided under such heading in such Act, in 
addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 62]]

                                TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $15,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $158,630,000, to remain available until expended.

                  foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $47,200,000:  Provided, That 
$3,000,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described and in accordance with the process and reporting 
procedures set forth under this heading in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $2,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $99,880,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2026. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

[[Page 138 STAT. 63]]

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for planning and design and construction at 
Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, $88,600,000, to remain available until expended, for planning 
and design and construction associated with the Southern Expansion 
project at Arlington National Cemetery.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $77,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, of which $8,940,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction and renovation of the physical plants at the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, District of Columbia, and the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, Mississippi:  Provided, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading from funds available in 
the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $25,000,000 shall be paid 
from the general fund of the Treasury to the Trust Fund.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 301.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 7727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military Cemeteries.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 64]]

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 403.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public service 
activities.
    Sec. 404.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Subcommittee 
on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 405.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 406.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 407. <<NOTE: Web posting. Public 
information. Reports. Determination.>> (a) Any agency receiving funds 
made available in this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), 
post on the public Web site of that agency any report required to be 
submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the national 
interest.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.

    (c) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The head of the agency posting such 
report shall do so only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

    Sec. 408. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 409.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-

[[Page 138 STAT. 65]]

class travel by an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 410. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   None of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used to execute a contract for goods or services, 
including construction services, where the contractor has not complied 
with Executive Order No. 12989.

    Sec. 411.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 412. <<NOTE: Detainees. Cuba.>> (a) In General.--None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Defense in this Act may be used to construct, renovate, or expand any 
facility in the United States, its territories, or possessions to house 
any individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba, for the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or 
under the control of the Department of Defense.

    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control of 
                the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    Sec. 413.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section 5502 of title 38, 
United States Code, in any case arising out of the administration by the 
Secretary of laws and benefits under such title, to report a person who 
is deemed mentally incapacitated, mentally incompetent, or to be 
experiencing an extended loss of consciousness as a person who has been 
adjudicated as a mental defective under subsection (d)(4) or (g)(4) of 
section 922 of title 18, United States Code, without the order or 
finding of a judge, magistrate, or other judicial authority of competent 
jurisdiction that such person is a danger to himself or herself or 
others.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 66]]

   DIVISION B-- <<NOTE: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
 2024.>> AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, 
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                   Processing, Research, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $58,292,000 
of which not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $1,896,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Homeland Security; not to exceed $5,190,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Tribal Relations, of which $1,000,000 shall 
be to continue a Tribal Public Health Resource Center at a land grant 
university with existing indigenous public health expertise to expand 
current partnerships and collaborative efforts with indigenous groups, 
including but not limited to, tribal organizations and institutions such 
as tribal colleges, tribal technical colleges, tribal community colleges 
and tribal universities, to improve the delivery of culturally 
appropriate public health services and functions in American Indian 
communities focusing on indigenous food sovereignty; not to exceed 
$7,500,000 shall be available for the Office of Partnerships and Public 
Engagement, of which $1,500,000 shall be for 7 U.S.C. 2279(c)(5); not to 
exceed $25,206,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration, of which $23,500,000 shall be available 
for Departmental Administration to provide for necessary expenses for 
management support services to offices of the Department and for general 
administration, security, repairs and alterations, and other 
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and 
necessary for the practical and efficient work of the Department:  
Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
Administration mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office; not to 
exceed $4,500,000 shall be available for the Office of Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations and Intergovernmental Affairs to 
carry out the programs funded by this Act, including programs involving 
intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the executive branch; and 
not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Communications:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Agriculture is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 5 percent:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $22,000 of the amount made available under this paragraph 
for the immediate Office of the Secretary shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  That the amount made available under 
this heading for Departmental Administration shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
the holding of hearings as required

[[Page 138 STAT. 67]]

by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Relations and Intergovernmental Affairs shall be transferred to agencies 
of the Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain 
personnel at the agency level:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time 
period. Notification.>>  That no funds made available under this heading 
for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations may be 
obligated after 30 days from the date of enactment of this Act, unless 
the Secretary has notified the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress on the allocation of these funds by USDA agency:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time period. Notification.>> during any 
30 day notification period referenced in section 716 of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall take no action to begin implementation of 
the action that is subject to section 716 of this Act or make any public 
announcement of such action in any form.

                          Executive Operations

                      office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$30,500,000, of which $10,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155:  Provided, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be for 
an interdisciplinary center based at a land grant university focused on 
agricultural policy relevant to the Midwest region which will provide 
private entities, policymakers, and the public with timely insights and 
targeted economic solutions:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $500,000 shall be available to carry out 
section 224 of subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6924), as amended by section 12504 
of Public Law 115-334.

                     office of hearings and appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, 
$16,703,000.

                  office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
$14,967,000.

                 Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $91,000,000, of which not less than $77,428,000 is for 
cybersecurity requirements of the department.

                  Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
$6,867,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $1,466,000:  Provided, That funds made available

[[Page 138 STAT. 68]]

by this Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission area for salaries 
and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative support 
staff for the Office.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $37,000,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and other 
actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and for 
related costs, $22,603,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to 
the Department for Hazardous Materials Management may be transferred to 
any agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

               Office of Safety, Security, and Protection

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Safety, Security, and 
Protection, $20,800,000.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, including 
employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $111,561,000, including such sums as may be 
necessary for contracting and other arrangements with public agencies 
and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), and including not to 
exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational expenses, including 
the payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public 
Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food 
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97-98).

[[Page 138 STAT. 69]]

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$60,537,000.

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $4,500,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $1,884,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Research, Education, and 
Economics mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
up to one administrative support staff for the Office:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, $500,000 
shall be made available for the Office of the Chief Scientist.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$90,612,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $187,513,000, of which up to $46,850,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Surveys.>>  That amounts made available for the Census 
of Agriculture may be used to conduct Current Industrial Report surveys 
subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                      Agricultural Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100,000 and with prior notification and approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and for 
land exchanges where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or 
shall be equalized by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not 
exceed 25 percent of the total value of the land or interests 
transferred out of Federal ownership, $1,788,063,000:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>> appropriations hereunder shall be available 
for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to 
exceed one for replacement only:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: 7 USC 
2254.>> appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $500,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,800,000, except for 10 
buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$1,100,000 each, and except for four buildings to be constructed at a 
cost not to exceed $5,000,000 each, and the cost of altering any one 
building during

[[Page 138 STAT. 70]]

the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $500,000, whichever is greater:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for entering into lease agreements at any Agricultural 
Research Service location for the construction of a research facility by 
a non-Federal entity for use by the Agricultural Research Service and a 
condition of the lease shall be that any facility shall be owned, 
operated, and maintained by the non-Federal entity and shall be removed 
upon the expiration or termination of the lease agreement:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Maryland.>> That the limitations on alterations 
contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or replacement of 
existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided further, That 
appropriations <<NOTE: Easements.>> hereunder shall be available for 
granting easements at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center:  
Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to 
replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 
(21 U.S.C. 113a):  Provided further, <<NOTE: Easements.>> That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
any Agricultural Research Service location for the construction of a 
research facility by a non-Federal entity for use by, and acceptable to, 
the Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the easements shall 
be that upon completion the facility shall be accepted by the Secretary, 
subject to the availability of funds herein, if the Secretary finds that 
acceptance of the facility is in the interest of the United States:  
Provided further, That funds may be received from any State, other 
political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of 
establishing or operating any research facility or research project of 
the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $57,164,000, to 
remain available until expended, for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified for this account in the table titled ``Community Project 
Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act).

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                    research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$1,075,950,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act):  Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, Hispanic 
serving institutions education grants, capacity building for non-land-
grant colleges of agriculture, the agriculture and food research 
initiative, veterinary medicine loan repayment,

[[Page 138 STAT. 71]]

multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution challenge 
grants, grants management systems, tribal colleges education equity 
grants, and scholarships at 1890 institutions shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to 
receive funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than 
$1,000,000:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Grants. Alaska. Hawaii.>> That 
funds for education grants for Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving 
institutions be made available to individual eligible institutions or 
consortia of eligible institutions with funds awarded equally to each of 
the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  Provided further, That funds for 
providing grants for food and agricultural sciences for Alaska Native 
and Native Hawaiian-Serving institutions and for Insular Areas shall 
remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That funds 
for education grants for 1890 institutions shall be made available to 
institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222:  
Provided further, That not more than 5 percent of the amounts made 
available by this or any other Act to carry out the Agriculture and Food 
Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 3157 may be retained by the Secretary 
of Agriculture to pay administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in 
carrying out that authority.

               native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and American 
Samoa, $561,700,000 which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act):  Provided, That funds for extension services at 1994 
institutions and for facility improvements at 1890 institutions shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That institutions 
eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for cooperative extension 
receive no less than $1,000,000:  Provided further, That funds for 
cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act 
(7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471 shall 
be available for retirement and employees' compensation costs for 
extension agents.

                          integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $41,100,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That 
funds for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, indirect costs shall not be 
charged against any Extension

[[Page 138 STAT. 72]]

Implementation Program Area grant awarded under the Crop Protection/Pest 
Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).

   Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $1,617,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to an agency in the Marketing and Regulatory 
Programs mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund up 
to one administrative support staff for the Office.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$1,162,026,000, of which up to $14,276,000 shall be for the purposes, 
and in the amounts, specified for this account in the table titled 
``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act); of which $500,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for invasive catfish control; of 
which $250,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant diseases, animal diseases 
and for control of pest animals and birds (``contingency fund'') to the 
extent necessary to meet emergency conditions; of which $15,500,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be used for the cotton pests 
program, including for cost share purposes or for debt retirement for 
active eradication zones; of which $40,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for Animal Health Technical Services; of which 
$35,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
agricultural quarantine and inspection services; of which $3,500,000 
shall be for activities under the authority of the Horse Protection Act 
of 1970, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $65,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be used to support avian health; of 
which $4,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
information technology infrastructure; of which $215,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for specialty crop pests, of which 
$8,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, shall be for 
one-time control and management and associated activities directly 
related to the multiple-agency response to citrus greening; of which, 
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for field crop 
and rangeland ecosystem pests; of which $21,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for zoonotic disease management; of which 
$44,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for emergency 
preparedness and response; of which $59,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $6,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for the National Veterinary 
Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain

[[Page 138 STAT. 73]]

available until expended, shall be for the scrapie program for 
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for the wildlife damage management program for aviation safety: 
 Provided, That of amounts available under this heading for wildlife 
services methods development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That of amounts available under this 
heading for the screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall remain available 
until expended; of which $24,527,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be used to carry out the science program and transition 
activities for the National Bio and Agro-defense Facility located in 
Manhattan, Kansas:  Provided further, That no <<NOTE: Brucellosis 
eradication.>> funds shall be used to formulate or administer a 
brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal year that does 
not require minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent:  
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for the 
purchase, replacement, operation, and maintenance of aircraft:  Provided 
further, That in addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of 
the agricultural production industry of the United States, the Secretary 
may transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the 
agencies or corporations of the Department such sums as may be deemed 
necessary, to be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and 
eradication of contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, 
poultry, or plants, and for expenses in accordance with sections 10411 
and 10417 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) 
and sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 
7772), and any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such 
emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with 
such transferred amounts:  Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
repair and alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless 
otherwise provided the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value 
of the building.

    In <<NOTE: Fees. Reimbursement.>> fiscal year 2024, the agency is 
authorized to collect fees to cover the total costs of providing 
technical assistance, goods, or services requested by States, other 
political subdivisions, domestic and international organizations, 
foreign governments, or individuals, provided that such fees are 
structured such that any entity's liability for such fees is reasonably 
based on the technical assistance, goods, or services provided to the 
entity by the agency, and such fees shall be reimbursed to this account, 
to remain available until expended, without further appropriation, for 
providing such assistance, goods, or services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2268a, $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 74]]

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$222,887,000, of which $6,000,000 shall be available for the purposes of 
section 12306 of Public Law 113-79, and of which $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the purposes of section 779 of division A of Public Law 
117-103:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $12,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be to 
carry out section 12513 of Public Law 115-334, of which $11,250,000 
shall be for dairy business innovation initiatives established in Public 
Law 116-6 and the Secretary shall take measures to ensure an equal 
distribution of funds between these three regional innovation 
initiatives:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.
    Fees <<NOTE: Fees.>> may be collected for the cost of 
standardization activities, as established by regulation pursuant to law 
(31 U.S.C. 9701), except for the cost of activities relating to the 
development or maintenance of grain standards under the United States 
Grain Standards Act, 7 U.S.C. 71 et seq.

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $62,596,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That if crop size is understated and/
or other uncontrollable events occur, the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a et seq.); (2) transfers 
otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $21,501,000 for 
formulation and administration of marketing agreements and orders 
pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961 (Public Law 87-128).

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,000,000.

[[Page 138 STAT. 75]]

         limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That if grain export activities 
require additional supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable 
factors occur, this limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for Food 
Safety, $1,117,000:  Provided, That funds made available by this Act to 
an agency in the Food Safety mission area for salaries and expenses are 
available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $10,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,190,009,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees collected 
for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1327 
of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
138f):  Provided, That funds provided for the Public Health Data 
Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That no <<NOTE: Employment 
positions.>> fewer than 148 full-time equivalent positions shall be 
employed during fiscal year 2024 for purposes dedicated solely to 
inspections and enforcement related to the Humane Methods of Slaughter 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.):  Provided <<NOTE: Continuation.>> further, 
That the Food Safety and Inspection Service shall continue 
implementation of section 11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further 
clarified by the amendments made in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79:  
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant to 
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value 
of the building.


__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 76]]

                                TITLE II

                FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for Farm 
Production and Conservation, $1,527,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to an agency in the Farm Production and 
Conservation mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

            Farm Production and Conservation Business Center

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Production and Conservation 
Business Center, $244,183,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be for the 
implementation of section 773 of Public Law 117-328:  Provided, That 
$60,228,000 of amounts appropriated for the current fiscal year pursuant 
to section 1241(a) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985 
(16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and merged with this 
account.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,209,307,000, 
of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be for the hiring of new 
employees to fill vacancies and anticipated vacancies at Farm Service 
Agency county offices and farm loan officers and shall be available 
until September 30, 2025:  <<NOTE: Reports. Assessment.>> Provided, That 
the agency shall submit a report by the end of the fourth quarter of 
fiscal year 2024 to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress that identifies for each project/investment that is operational 
(a) current performance against key indicators of customer satisfaction, 
(b) current performance of service level agreements or other technical 
metrics, (c) current performance against a pre-established cost 
baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current and planned spending on 
operational enhancements or upgrades, and (e) an assessment of whether 
the investment continues to meet business needs as intended as well as 
alternatives to the investment:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Payments.>>  
That the Secretary is authorized to use the services, facilities, and 
authorities (but not the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corporation to 
make program payments for all programs administered by the Agency:  
Provided further, That other funds made available to the Agency for 
authorized activities may be advanced to and merged with this account:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$696,594,000 shall be made available to county offices, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding

[[Page 138 STAT. 77]]

the preceding proviso, any funds made available to county offices in the 
current fiscal year that the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency 
deems to exceed or not meet the amount needed for the county offices may 
be transferred to or from the Farm Service Agency for necessary 
expenses:  Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Farm Service Agency shall be used to close Farm Service Agency county 
offices:  Provided <<NOTE: Notification. Advance approval.>>  further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to permanently relocate county based employees that would result in 
an office with two or fewer employees without prior notification and 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $6,500,000:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of Agriculture may determine that United States 
territories and Federally recognized Indian tribes are ``States'' for 
the purposes of Subtitle A of such Act.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $7,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         dairy indemnity program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described in 
the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 Stat. 
1549A-12).

            geographically disadvantaged farmers and ranchers

    For necessary expenses to carry out direct reimbursement payments to 
geographically disadvantaged farmers and ranchers under section 1621 of 
the Food Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8792), 
$3,500,000, to remain available until expended.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 5136), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
relending program (7 U.S.C. 1936c), and Indian

[[Page 138 STAT. 78]]

highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 5136) to be available from 
funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: 
$3,500,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and $3,100,000,000 
for farm ownership direct loans; $2,118,491,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans and $1,633,000,000 for direct operating 
loans; emergency loans, $37,667,000; Indian tribe land acquisition 
loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, $150,000,000; 
relending program, $61,426,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, 
$5,000,000; and for boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Pink bollworm.>> That the Secretary shall deem the 
pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the purpose of boll weevil 
eradication program loans.

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: $3,507,000 for emergency 
loans, to remain available until expended; and $27,598,000 for direct 
farm operating loans, $1,483,000 for unsubsidized guaranteed farm 
operating loans, $19,368,000 for the relending program, $1,577,000 for 
Indian highly fractionated land loans, and $258,000 for boll weevil 
eradication program loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $326,053,000:  Provided, That of 
this amount, $305,803,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> That the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified at least 15 days 
in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $65,637,000:  
Provided, That $1,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
in this Act shall be available for compliance and integrity activities 
required under section 516(b)(2)(C) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1516(b)(2)(C)), and shall be in addition to amounts 
otherwise provided for such purpose:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $1,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of conservation 
plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and water 
(including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special measures 
for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent floods and 
the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural related 
pollutants); operation of conservation

[[Page 138 STAT. 79]]

plant materials centers; classification and mapping of soil; 
dissemination of information; acquisition of lands, water, and interests 
therein for use in the plant materials program by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of 
August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 2268a); purchase and erection or alteration or 
improvement of permanent and temporary buildings; and operation and 
maintenance of aircraft, $914,899,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, of which $19,144,913 shall be for the purposes, and 
in the amounts, specified for this account in the table titled 
``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction 
and improvement of buildings and public improvements at plant materials 
centers, except that the cost of alterations and improvements to other 
buildings and other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  
Provided further, That when buildings or other structures are erected on 
non-Federal land, that the right to use such land is obtained as 
provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available under this heading, $7,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses 
to carry out the Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production Program 
under section 222 of subtitle A of title II of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6923), as amended by 
section 12302 of Public Law 115-334.

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to surveys and investigations, engineering operations, 
works of improvement, and changes in use of land, in accordance with the 
Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 
1007-1009) and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $35,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $20,350,000 shall be for the purposes, and in the 
amounts, specified for this account in the table titled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act):  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That for 
funds provided by this Act or any other prior Act, the limitation 
regarding the size of the watershed or subwatershed exceeding two 
hundred and fifty thousand acres in which such activities can be 
undertaken shall only apply for activities undertaken for the primary 
purpose of flood prevention (including structural and land treatment 
measures):  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $14,650,000 shall be allocated to multi-benefit irrigation 
modernization projects and activities that increase fish or wildlife 
habitat, reduce drought impact, improve water quality or instream flow, 
or provide off-channel renewable energy production.

                    watershed rehabilitation program

    Under the authorities of section 14 of the Watershed Protection and 
Flood Prevention Act, $1,000,000 is provided.

[[Page 138 STAT. 80]]

<<NOTE: Contracts.>> CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the funds 
available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Notification. Time 
period.>>  the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House and Senate in writing 15 days prior to the obligation or 
commitment of any emergency funds from the Commodity Credit Corporation: 
 Provided further, <<NOTE: Spend plan. Timeline.>>  That such written 
notification shall include a detailed spend plan for the anticipated 
uses of such funds and an expected timeline for program execution if 
such obligation or commitment exceeds $100,000,000.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $15,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6961).

[[Page 138 STAT. 81]]

                                TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

           Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Rural Development, $1,620,000:  Provided, That funds made available by 
this Act to an agency in the Rural Development mission area for salaries 
and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative support 
staff for the Office.

                            Rural Development

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of Rural Development programs, including activities with 
institutions concerning the development and operation of agricultural 
cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; $351,087,000:  Provided, 
That of the amount made available under this heading, up to $1,500,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025, shall be for the Rural 
Partners Network activities of the Department of Agriculture, and may be 
transferred to other agencies of the Department for such purpose, 
consistent with the missions and authorities of such agencies:  Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under this heading, no less 
than $75,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be used for 
information technology expenses:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading may be 
used for advertising and promotional activities that support Rural 
Development programs:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
funds appropriated for purposes authorized by section 502(i) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts collected under 
such section, as amended by this Act, will immediately be credited to 
this account and will remain available until expended for such purposes.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, to 
be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as follows: 
$880,000,000 shall be for section 502 direct loans; $5,000,000 shall be 
for a Single Family Housing Relending demonstration program for Native 
American Tribes; and $25,000,000,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025 shall be for section 502 unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans; $25,000,000 for section 504 housing repair loans; $60,000,000 for 
section 515 rental housing; $400,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed 
multi-family housing loans; $10,000,000 for credit sales of single 
family housing acquired property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-

[[Page 138 STAT. 82]]

help housing land development loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site 
development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $84,480,000 shall be for 
direct loans; Single Family Housing Relending demonstration program for 
Native American Tribes, $2,288,000; section 504 housing repair loans, 
$4,338,000; section 523 self-help housing land development loans, 
$637,000; section 524 site development loans, $477,000; and repair, 
rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental housing, 
$20,988,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Fees.>> That to support the loan program level for 
section 538 guaranteed loans made available under this heading the 
Secretary may charge or adjust any fees to cover the projected cost of 
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provisions of the Credit Reform Act 
of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such loans may not 
be subsidized:  Provided further, That applicants in communities that 
have a current rural area waiver under section 541 of the Housing Act of 
1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) shall be treated as living in a rural area for 
purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans provided under this heading:  
Provided further, That of the <<NOTE: Deadline.>> amounts available 
under this paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less than 
$5,000,000 shall be available for direct loans for individuals whose 
homes will be built pursuant to a program funded with a mutual and self-
help housing grant authorized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 
until June 1, 2024:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Incentives. Determination.>>  the Secretary shall implement 
provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit organizations and public 
housing authorities to facilitate the acquisition of Rural Housing 
Service (RHS) multifamily housing properties by such nonprofit 
organizations and public housing authorities that commit to keep such 
properties in the RHS multifamily housing program for a period of time 
as determined by the Secretary, with such incentives to include, but not 
be limited to, the following: allow such nonprofit entities and public 
housing authorities to earn a Return on Investment on their own 
resources to include proceeds from low income housing tax credit 
syndication, own contributions, grants, and developer loans at favorable 
rates and terms, invested in a deal; and allow reimbursement of 
organizational costs associated with owner's oversight of asset referred 
to as ``Asset Management Fee'' of up to $7,500 per property.

    In addition, for the cost of direct loans and grants, including the 
cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, $34,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
a demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of the 
sections 514, 515, and 516 multi-family rental housing properties to 
restructure existing USDA multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary 
deems appropriate, expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project 
has sufficient resources to preserve the project for the purpose of 
providing safe and affordable housing for low-income residents and farm 
laborers including reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan 
payments, subordinating, reducing or re-amortizing loan debt; and other 
financial assistance including advances, payments and incentives 
(including the ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on 
investment) required by the Secretary:  Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  
That the Secretary shall, as part of the preservation and revitalization 
agreement, obtain a

[[Page 138 STAT. 83]]

restrictive use agreement consistent with the terms of the 
restructuring.

    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, as 
authorized by sections 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
1484, 1486), $12,722,000, to remain available until expended, for direct 
farm labor housing loans and domestic farm labor housing grants and 
contracts.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be paid to the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

rental <<NOTE: Determinations. Time periods.>>  assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 or 
agreements entered into in lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for 
eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing 
Act of 1949, $1,608,000,000, and in addition such sums as may be 
necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt 
incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance 
program under section 521(a)(2) of the Act:  Provided, That amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for renewal of rental 
assistance agreements for a maximum of 1,000 units where the Secretary 
determines that a maturing loan for a project cannot reasonably be 
restructured with another USDA loan or modification and the project was 
operating with rental assistance under section 521 of the Housing Act of 
1949:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That the Secretary may 
enter into rental assistance contracts in maturing properties with 
existing rental assistance agreements notwithstanding any provision of 
section 521 of the Housing Act of 1949, for a term of at least 10 years 
but not more than 20 years:  Provided further, That any agreement to 
enter into a rental assistance contract under section 521 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 for a maturing property shall obligate the owner to continue 
to maintain the project as decent, safe, and sanitary housing and to 
operate the development in accordance with the Housing Act of 1949, 
except that rents shall be based on current Fair Market Rents as 
established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant 
to 24 CFR 888 Subpart A, 42 U.S.C. 1437f and 3535d, to determine the 
maximum initial rent and adjusted annually by the Operating Cost 
Adjustment Factor pursuant to 24 CFR 888 Subpart B, unless the Agency 
determines that the project's budget-based needs require a higher rent, 
in which case the Agency may approve a budget-based rent level:  
Provided further, That rental assistance agreements entered into or 
renewed during the current fiscal year shall be funded for a one year 
period:  Provided further, That upon request by an owner under section 
514 or 515 of the Act, the Secretary may renew the rental assistance 
agreement for a period of 20 years or until the term of such loan has 
expired, subject to annual appropriations:  Provided further, That any 
unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-year agreements may 
be transferred and used for purposes of any debt reduction, maintenance, 
repair, or rehabilitation of any existing projects; preservation; and 
rental assistance activities authorized under title V of the Act:  
Provided further, That rental assistance provided under agreements

[[Page 138 STAT. 84]]

entered into prior to fiscal year 2024 for a farm labor multi-family 
housing project financed under section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be 
recaptured for use in another project until such assistance has remained 
unused for a period of twelve consecutive months, if such project has a 
waiting list of tenants seeking such assistance or the project has 
rental assistance eligible tenants who are not receiving such 
assistance:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That such 
recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act:  Provided further, That except as 
provided in the eighth proviso under this heading and notwithstanding 
any other provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 
2024 for a project that the Secretary determines no longer needs rental 
assistance and use such recaptured funds for current needs.

                      rural housing voucher account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, $48,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available for rural housing vouchers to any low-income household 
(including those not receiving rental assistance) residing in a property 
financed with a section 515 loan which has been prepaid or otherwise 
paid off after September 30, 2005:  Provided further, That the amount of 
such voucher shall be the difference between comparable market rent for 
the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent for such unit:  Provided 
further, That funds made available for such vouchers shall be subject to 
the availability of annual appropriations:  
Provided <<NOTE: Applicability.>> further, That the Secretary shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 
total, from the program funds made available under this heading, for 
administrative expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                   mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $25,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                     rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 85]]

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$2,800,000,000 for direct loans and $650,000,000 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, for rural community facilities 
programs as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$18,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
$5,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for a Rural Community Development Initiative:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall be used solely to develop the capacity 
and ability of private, nonprofit community-based housing and community 
development organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve 
housing, community facilities, community and economic development 
projects in rural areas:  Provided further, That such funds shall be 
made available to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary 
organizations proposing to carry out a program of financial and 
technical assistance:  Provided further, That such intermediary 
organizations shall provide matching funds from other sources, including 
Federal funds for related activities, in an amount not less than funds 
provided:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Loans. Grants.>>  any 
unobligated balances from prior year appropriations under this heading 
for the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees and grants, including 
amounts deobligated or cancelled, may be made available to cover the 
subsidy costs for direct loans and or loan guarantees under this heading 
in this fiscal year:  Provided further, That no amounts may be made 
available pursuant to the preceding proviso from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, or that were specified in the tables titled 
``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the 
explanatory statements for division A of Public Law 117-103 and division 
A of Public Law 117-328 as described in section 4 in the matter 
preceding each such division A:  Provided further, That $8,000,000 of 
the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by section 
306(a)(19) of such Act:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to 
the funds made available under this heading:  Provided further, That in 
addition to any other available funds, the Secretary may expend not more 
than $1,000,000 total, from the program funds made available under this 
heading, for administrative expenses for activities funded under this 
heading.

[[Page 138 STAT. 86]]

                   Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $66,615,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant to a 
qualified national organization to provide technical assistance for 
rural transportation in order to promote economic development and 
$8,000,000 shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 
2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 
15101 et seq.), the Southwest Border Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 
15301 et seq.), and the Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 14101 
et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program purpose as 
described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses:  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $100,000 shall be made 
available for one or more qualified state technology council to promote 
private-sector economic development in the bio-sciences:  Provided 
further, That $4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be for business grants to benefit Federally Recognized Native 
American Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to a qualified national 
organization to provide technical assistance for rural transportation in 
order to promote economic development:  Provided further, That sections 
381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are 
not applicable to funds made available under this heading.

               intermediary relending program fund account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$10,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $3,035,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$573,000 shall be available through June 30, 2024, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,147,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2024, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,468,000 shall be paid to the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313B(a) of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose

[[Page 138 STAT. 87]]

of promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$50,000,000.
    The cost of grants authorized under section 313B(a) of the Rural 
Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting rural economic 
development and job creation projects shall not exceed $10,000,000.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $24,600,000, of which $2,800,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised of 
individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $13,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 210A of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, of 
which $1,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
Agriculture Innovation Centers authorized pursuant to section 6402 of 
Public Law 107-171.

               rural microentrepreneur assistance program

    For the principal amount of direct loans as authorized by section 
379E of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
2008s), $20,000,000.
    For the cost of loans and grants, $5,000,000 under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 379E of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s).

                    rural energy for america program

    For the principal amount of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $50,000,000.

                    healthy food financing initiative

    For the cost of loans and grants that is consistent with section 243 
of subtitle D of title II of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6953), as added by section 4206 of 
the Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary expenses of the Secretary to 
support projects that provide access to healthy food in underserved 
areas, to create and preserve quality jobs, and to revitalize low-income 
communities, $500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such costs of loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.

[[Page 138 STAT. 88]]

                         Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as 
follows: $860,000,000 for direct loans; and $50,000,000 for guaranteed 
loans.
    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, for rural water, waste water, waste 
disposal, and solid waste management programs authorized by sections 
306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in sections 
306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, $595,972,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which up to $117,484,737 shall be for the purposes, and in the 
amounts, specified for this account in the table titled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act:  Provided, That not to exceed $5,000,000 of 
the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
rural utilities program described in section 306E of such Act:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be for grants authorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act in addition to funding 
authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
$65,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be for 
loans and grants including water and waste disposal systems grants 
authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B) and section 306D of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, and Federally Recognized Native American 
Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act, and the Department of 
Hawaiian Home Lands (of the State of Hawaii):  Provided further, That 
funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may be provided to a consortium formed pursuant to 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83:  Provided further, That 
not <<NOTE: Alaska.>> more than 2 percent of the funding provided for 
section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be 
used by the State of Alaska for training and technical assistance 
programs and not more than 2 percent of the funding provided for section 
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by a 
consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for 
training and technical assistance programs:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for technical assistance 
grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) 
of such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of extreme need, 
of which $8,500,000 shall be made available for a grant to a qualified 
nonprofit multi-State regional technical assistance organization, with 
experience in working with small communities on water and waste water 
problems, the principal

[[Page 138 STAT. 89]]

purpose of such grant shall be to assist rural communities with 
populations of 3,300 or less, in improving the planning, financing, 
development, operation, and management of water and waste water systems, 
and of which not less than $800,000 shall be for a qualified national 
Native American organization to provide technical assistance for rural 
water systems for tribal communities:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $21,817,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading shall 
be for contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit 
rider program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $4,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under this heading shall be for solid waste management grants: 
 Provided further, That not to exceed $2,695,000 of the amounts 
appropriated under this heading shall be available as the Secretary 
deems appropriate for water and waste direct one percent loans for 
distressed communities:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  
That if the Secretary determines that any portion of the amount made 
available for one percent loans is not needed for such loans, the 
Secretary may use such amounts for grants authorized by section 
306(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act:  Provided 
further, That if any funds made available for the direct loan subsidy 
costs remain unobligated after July 31, 2024, such unobligated balances 
may be used for grant programs funded under this heading:  Provided 
further, That $8,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be transferred to, and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service, 
High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide grants authorized under 
section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a):  
Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act are not applicable to the funds made available 
under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of loans and loan guarantees as authorized by 
sections 4, 305, 306, 313A, and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of 
1936 (7 U.S.C. 904, 935, 936, 940c-1, and 940g) shall be made as 
follows: guaranteed rural electric loans made pursuant to section 306 of 
that Act, $2,167,000,000; cost of money direct loans made pursuant to 
sections 4, notwithstanding the one-eighth of one percent in 4(c)(2), 
and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of that Act, $4,333,000,000; guaranteed 
underwriting loans pursuant to section 313A of that Act, $900,000,000; 
and for cost-of-money rural telecommunications loans made pursuant to 
section 305(d)(2) of that Act, $550,000,000:  Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, design, 
engineering or improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating plants 
(whether new or existing) that utilize carbon subsurface utilization and 
storage systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305(d)(2) of 
the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935(d)(2)), including 
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications 
loans, $5,720,000.

[[Page 138 STAT. 90]]

    In addition, $3,578,000 to remain available until expended, to carry 
out section 6407 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 8107a):  Provided, That the energy efficiency measures 
supported by the funding in this paragraph shall contribute in a 
demonstrable way to the reduction of greenhouse gases.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall be paid to 
the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $49,574,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which up to $9,573,570 shall be for the 
purposes, and in the amounts, specified for this account in the table 
titled ``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' 
in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That 
$3,000,000 shall be made available for grants authorized by section 379G 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Grants.>>  That funding provided under this heading for 
grants under section 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act may only be provided to entities that meet all of the eligibility 
criteria for a consortium as established by this section.

    For the cost to continue a broadband loan and grant pilot program 
established by section 779 of division A of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141) under the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.), 
$100,385,000, to remain available until expended, of which up to 
$10,385,000 shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified for 
this account in the table titled ``Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act):  Provided, <<NOTE: Grants.>> That the Secretary may 
award grants described in section 601(a) of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 950bb(a)) for the purposes of carrying 
out such pilot program:  Provided further, That the cost of direct loans 
shall be defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
 Provided further, That at least 90 percent of the households to be 
served by a project receiving a loan or grant under the pilot program 
shall be in a rural area without sufficient access to broadband:  
Provided further, That for purposes of such pilot program, a rural area 
without sufficient access to broadband shall be defined as twenty-five 
megabits per second downstream and three megabits per second upstream:  
Provided further, That to the extent possible, projects receiving funds 
provided under the pilot program must build out service to at least one 
hundred megabits per second downstream, and twenty megabits per second 
upstream:  Provided further, That an entity to which a loan or grant is 
made under the pilot program shall not use the loan or grant to 
overbuild or duplicate broadband service in a service area by any entity 
that has received a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities Service 
unless such service is not provided sufficient access to broadband at 
the minimum service threshold:  Provided further, That not more than 
four percent of the funds made available

[[Page 138 STAT. 91]]

in this paragraph can be used for administrative costs to carry out the 
pilot program and up to three percent of funds made available in this 
paragraph may be available for technical assistance and pre-development 
planning activities to support the most rural communities:  Provided 
further, That the Rural Utilities Service is directed to expedite 
program delivery methods that would implement this paragraph:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Requirements.>> That for purposes of this paragraph, 
the Secretary shall adhere to the notice, reporting and service area 
assessment requirements set forth in section 701 of the Rural 
Electrification Act (7 U.S.C. 950cc).
    In addition, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
the Community Connect Grant Program authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950bb-3.





__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 92]]

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $1,127,000:  Provided, That 
funds made available by this Act to an agency in the Food, Nutrition and 
Consumer Services mission area for salaries and expenses are available 
to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 
and 21; $33,266,226,000, to remain available through September 30, 2025, 
of which such sums as are made available under section 14222(b)(1) of 
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246), as 
amended by this Act, shall be merged with and available for the same 
time period and purposes as provided herein:  Provided, That of the 
total amount available, $18,004,000 shall be available to carry out 
section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  
Provided further, That of the total amount available, $21,005,000 shall 
be available to carry out studies and evaluations and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended to carry out 
section 18(g) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769(g)):  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
18(g)(3)(C) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769(g)(3)(c)), the total grant amount provided to a farm to 
school grant recipient in fiscal year 2024 shall not exceed $500,000:  
Provided further, That of the total amount available, $10,000,000 shall 
be available to provide competitive grants to State agencies for 
subgrants to local educational agencies and schools to purchase the 
equipment, with a value of greater than $1,000, needed to serve 
healthier meals, improve food safety, and to help support the 
establishment, maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast 
program:  Provided further, That of the total amount available, 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended to carry out activities 
authorized under subsections (a)(2) and (e)(2) of section 21 of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769b-1(a)(2) 
and (e)(2)):  Provided further, That section 26(d) of the Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769g(d)) is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``2010 through 2024'' and inserting ``2010 
through 2025'':  Provided further, That section 9(h)(3) of the Richard 
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3)) is amended 
in the first sentence by striking ``For fiscal year 2023'' and inserting 
``For fiscal year 2024'':  Provided further, That section 9(h)(4) of the 
Richard

[[Page 138 STAT. 93]]

B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is amended 
in the first sentence by striking ``For fiscal year 2023'' and inserting 
``For fiscal year 2024''.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $7,030,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 17(h)(10) of 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than 
$90,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer counselors and other 
related activities, and $14,000,000 shall be used for infrastructure:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall use funds made available 
under this heading to increase the amount of a cash-value voucher for 
women and children participants to an amount recommended by the National 
Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine and adjusted for 
inflation:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this 
account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula except in 
accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that 
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>> upon termination of a federally 
mandated vendor moratorium and subject to terms and conditions 
established by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive the requirement at 
7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State agency.

                supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $122,382,521,000, of which $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2026, shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations:  Provided, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used to provide 
nutrition education services to State agencies and Federally Recognized 
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations:  Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, 
shall be used to carry out section 4003(b) of Public Law 115-334 
relating to demonstration projects for tribal organizations:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, $3,000,000 
shall be used to carry out section 4208 of Public Law 115-334:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Workfare requirements.>> this appropriation shall 
be subject to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be 
required by law:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
Employment and Training under this heading shall remain available 
through September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading for section 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) 
of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2025:  Provided further,

[[Page 138 STAT. 94]]

That none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
obligated or expended in contravention of section 213A of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A):  Provided further, 
That funds made available <<NOTE: Contracts. Studies. Evaluations.>>  
under this heading may be used to enter into contracts and employ staff 
to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct activities related to 
program integrity provided that such activities are authorized by the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of the 
Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); 
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance for the 
nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the 
Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188); 
and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 
17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $480,070,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2025:  Provided, That none of these 
funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation 
for commodities donated to the program:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds made 
available in fiscal year 2024 to support the Seniors Farmers' Market 
Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm Security 
and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available 
through September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 
U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 20 percent for costs 
associated with the distribution of commodities.

                    nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$177,348,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, as 
amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.


__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 95]]

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, $932,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to any agency in the Trade and Foreign 
Agricultural Affairs mission area for salaries and expenses are 
available to fund up to one administrative support staff for the Office.

                      office of codex alimentarius

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Codex Alimentarius, 
$4,922,000, including not to exceed $40,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $227,330,000, of which no more than 6 percent shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025, for overseas operations to include 
the payment of locally employed staff:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That the Service may utilize advances 
of funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on 
behalf of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and 
institutions under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food 
production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign 
assistance programs of the United States Agency for International 
Development:  Provided further, That funds made available for middle-
income country training programs, funds made available for the Borlaug 
International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship program, 
and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural Service appropriation 
solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations in international 
currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, shall remain available until expended.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,619,107,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 96]]

   mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $240,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> the Commodity Credit Corporation is 
authorized to provide the services, facilities, and authorities for the 
purpose of implementing such section, subject to reimbursement from 
amounts provided herein:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, not more than 10 percent, but not less 
than $24,000,000, shall remain available until expended to purchase 
agricultural commodities as described in subsection 3107(a)(2) of the 
Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1(a)(2)).

  commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                 account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $6,063,000, 
to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the 
Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, which shall be paid to the 
appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 97]]

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to amounts appropriated 
to the FDA Innovation Account, for carrying out the activities described 
in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114-
255); for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities, authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and 
notwithstanding section 521 of Public Law 107-188; $6,721,782,000:  
Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, $1,422,104,000 
shall be derived from prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 
U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to this account and remain available 
until expended; $362,381,000 shall be derived from medical device user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $613,538,000 shall be derived from 
human generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall 
be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$31,109,000 shall be derived from biosimilar biological product user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, and shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended; $33,500,000 shall be 
derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$25,000,000 shall be derived from generic new animal drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $712,000,000 shall be derived from 
tobacco product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That in addition to and notwithstanding any other provision 
under this heading, amounts collected for prescription drug user fees, 
medical device user fees, human generic drug user fees, biosimilar 
biological product user fees, animal drug user fees, and generic new 
animal drug user fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2024 
limitations are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That fees derived 
from prescription drug, medical device, human generic drug, biosimilar 
biological product, animal drug, and generic new animal drug assessments 
for fiscal year 2024, including any such fees collected prior to fiscal 
year 2024 but credited for fiscal year 2024, shall be subject

[[Page 138 STAT. 98]]

to the fiscal year 2024 limitations:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may accept payment during fiscal year 2024 of user fees 
specified under this heading and authorized for fiscal year 2025, prior 
to the due date for such fees, and that amounts of such fees assessed 
for fiscal year 2025 for which the Secretary accepts payment in fiscal 
year 2024 shall not be included in amounts under this heading:  Provided 
further, That none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, 
or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701:  
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated: (1) 
$1,185,989,000 shall be for the Center for Food Safety and Applied 
Nutrition and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs, of which no less than $15,000,000 shall be used for inspections 
of foreign seafood manufacturers and field examinations of imported 
seafood; (2) $2,334,704,000 shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation 
and Research and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs, of which no less than $10,000,000 shall be for pilots to 
increase unannounced foreign inspections and shall remain available 
until expended; (3) $570,632,000 shall be for the Center for Biologics 
Evaluation and Research and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $284,285,000 shall be for the Center for 
Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (5) $770,697,000 shall be for the Center for Devices 
and Radiological Health and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $77,505,000 shall be for the National Center 
for Toxicological Research; (7) $684,324,000 shall be for the Center for 
Tobacco Products and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (8) $215,701,000 shall be for Rent and Related 
activities, of which $55,061,000 is for White Oak Consolidation, other 
than the amounts paid to the General Services Administration for rent; 
(9) $230,423,000 shall be for payments to the General Services 
Administration for rent; and (10) $367,522,000 shall be for other 
activities, including the Office of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
the Office of Food Policy and Response, the Office of Operations, the 
Office of the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  not to exceed $25,000 
of this amount shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by the Commissioner: 
 Provided further, That any transfer of funds pursuant to, and for the 
administration of, section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made 
available under this heading for other activities and shall not exceed 
$2,000,000:  Provided further, That of the amounts that are made 
available under this heading for ``other activities'', and that are not 
derived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Department of Health and Human Services--
Office of Inspector General'' for oversight of the programs and 
operations of the Food and Drug Administration and shall be in addition 
to funds otherwise made available for oversight of the Food and Drug 
Administration:  Provided further, That funds may be <<NOTE: Advance 
approval.>> transferred from one specified activity to another with the 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    In <<NOTE: Fees.>> addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 263b, export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, 
priority review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff,

[[Page 138 STAT. 99]]

food and feed recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary 
qualified importer program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, 
outsourcing facility fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription 
drug wholesale distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 
21 U.S.C. 353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and 
inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), third-party 
auditor fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), medical countermeasure 
priority review voucher user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a, and 
fees relating to over-the-counter monograph drugs authorized by 21 
U.S.C. 379j-72 shall be credited to this account, to remain available 
until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
demolition, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fda innovation account, cures act

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described under 
section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to amounts 
available for such purposes under the heading ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That amounts 
appropriated in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant to section 
1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures Act, are to be derived from amounts 
transferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act, and may be 
transferred by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to the appropriation 
for ``Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug 
Administration Salaries and Expenses'' solely for the purposes provided 
in such Act:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That upon a 
determination by the Commissioner that funds transferred pursuant to the 
previous proviso are not necessary for the purposes provided, such 
amounts may be transferred back to the account:  Provided further, That 
such transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases), in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $365,000,000, 
including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for consultations 
and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign governmental and 
other regulatory officials, of which not less than $80,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2026, and of which not less than 
$4,218,000

[[Page 138 STAT. 100]]

shall be for expenses of the Office of the Inspector General:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding the limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, amounts provided 
under this heading are available for the liquidation of obligations 
equal to current year payments on leases entered into prior to the date 
of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That for the purpose of 
recording and liquidating any lease obligations that should have been 
recorded and liquidated against accounts closed pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1552, and consistent with the preceding proviso, such amounts shall be 
transferred to and recorded in a no-year account in the Treasury, which 
has been established for the sole purpose of recording adjustments for 
and liquidating such unpaid obligations.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $94,300,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the 
agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  
Provided further, That the purposes of section 3.7(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2128(b)(2)(A)(i)), the Farm Credit 
Administration may exempt, an amount in its sole discretion, from the 
application of the limitation provided in that clause of export loans 
described in the clause guaranteed or insured in a manner other than 
described in subclause (II) of the clause.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 101]]

                                TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  The Secretary may use any appropriations made available 
to the Department of Agriculture in this Act to purchase new passenger 
motor vehicles, in addition to specific appropriations for this purpose, 
so long as the total number of vehicles purchased in fiscal year 2024 
does not exceed the number of vehicles owned or leased in fiscal year 
2018:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That, prior to purchasing 
additional motor vehicles, the Secretary must determine that such 
vehicles are necessary for transportation safety, to reduce operational 
costs, and for the protection of life, property, and public safety:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Approval. Deadline.>> That the 
Secretary may not increase the Department of Agriculture's fleet above 
the 2018 level unless the Secretary notifies in writing, and receives 
approval from, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress within 30 days of the notification.

    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of property, plant and equipment and for the improvement, 
delivery, and implementation of Department financial, and administrative 
information technology services, and other support systems necessary for 
the delivery of financial, administrative, and information technology 
services, including cloud adoption and migration, of primary benefit to 
the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such transferred funds to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That none <<NOTE: Advance 
approval.>> of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior 
approval of the agency administrator:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Advance approval.>> That none of the 
funds transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section 
shall be available for obligation without written notification to and 
the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Notification. Advance 
approval.>> none of the funds appropriated by this Act or made available 
to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure to make any changes to the Department's 
National Finance Center without written notification to and prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
as required by section 716 of this Act:  Provided further, That 
none <<NOTE: Notification. Advance approval.>> of the funds appropriated 
by this Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure to initiate, plan, 
develop, implement, or make any changes to remove or relocate any 
systems, missions, personnel, or functions of the offices of the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Chief Information Officer, co-located with or 
from the National Finance Center prior to written notification to and 
prior approval of the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress and in accordance with the requirements of section 716 of this 
Act:  Provided further, That the National Finance Center Information 
Technology Services Division personnel and data center management 
responsibilities, and control of any

[[Page 138 STAT. 102]]

functions, missions, and systems for current and future human resources 
management and integrated personnel and payroll systems (PPS) and 
functions provided by the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief 
Information Officer shall remain in the National Finance Center and 
under the management responsibility and administrative control of the 
National Finance Center:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the offices of the Chief Financial Officer shall 
actively market to existing and new Departments and other government 
agencies National Finance Center shared services including, but not 
limited to, payroll, financial management, and human capital shared 
services and allow the National Finance Center to perform technology 
upgrades:  Provided further, That of annual income amounts in the 
Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture attributable to 
the amounts in excess of the true costs of the shared services provided 
by the National Finance Center and budgeted for the National Finance 
Center, the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4 percent for the 
replacement or acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment for 
the improvement, delivery, and implementation of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services, and other systems 
of the National Finance Center or to pay any unforeseen, extraordinary 
cost of the National Finance Center:  Provided further, That none 
of <<NOTE: Notification.>>  the amounts reserved shall be available for 
obligation unless the Secretary submits written notification of the 
obligation to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>> the 
limitations on the obligation of funds pending notification to 
Congressional Committees shall not apply to any obligation that, as 
determined by the Secretary, is necessary to respond to a declared state 
of emergency that significantly impacts the operations of the National 
Finance Center; or to evacuate employees of the National Finance Center 
to a safe haven to continue operations of the National Finance Center.

    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  No funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative 
agreements or similar arrangements between the United States Department 
of Agriculture and nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the 
total direct cost of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative 
arrangements is to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two 
parties. This does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on 
grants and contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are 
computed on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations 
are provided in this Act.

    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current fiscal 
year shall remain available until expended to disburse obligations made 
in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: the Rural 
Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural Electrification and 
Telecommunication Loans program account, and the Rural Housing Insurance 
Fund program account.
    Sec. 706. <<NOTE: Determination. Approvals.>>  None of the funds 
made available to the Department of Agriculture by this Act may be used 
to acquire new information technology systems or significant upgrades, 
as determined by the Office of the Chief Information Officer, without 
the approval of the Chief Information Officer and the concurrence of the 
Executive

[[Page 138 STAT. 103]]

Information Technology Investment Review Board: 
<<NOTE: Notification.>>  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding section 11319 of title 40, 
United States Code, none of the funds available to the Department of 
Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated for projects, 
contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior to receipt of written 
approval by the Chief Information Officer:  Provided further, That the 
Chief Information Officer may authorize an agency to obligate funds 
without written approval from the Chief Information Officer for 
projects, contracts, or other agreements up to $250,000 based upon the 
performance of an agency measured against the performance plan 
requirements described in the explanatory statement accompanying Public 
Law 113-235.

    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
Rural Utilities Service borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, 
direct or guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, 
or any not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or 
direct loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under 
section 313B(a) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such 
Act.
    Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2025, for 
information technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) or by a successor to that 
Act, other than by title I or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or 
programs for which indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, that is 
authorized or required to be carried out using funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.

    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,900,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and

[[Page 138 STAT. 104]]

task forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 714.  Notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 14222 of Public 
Law 110-246 (7 U.S.C. 612c-6; in this section referred to as ``section 
14222''), none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out a program under section 32 of the Act of August 
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred to as ``section 32'') 
in excess of $1,574,028,000 (exclusive of carryover appropriations from 
prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement 
Commodities--$485,000,000; State Option Contracts--$5,000,000; Removal 
of Defective Commodities--$1,660,000; Administration of section 32 
Commodity Purchases--$37,178,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Time 
period.>> That, of the total funds made available in the matter 
preceding this proviso that remain unobligated on October 1, 2024, such 
unobligated balances shall carryover into fiscal year 2025 and shall 
remain available until expended for any of the purposes of section 32, 
except that any such carryover funds used in accordance with clause (3) 
of section 32 may not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obligated until 
the Secretary of Agriculture provides written notification of the 
expenditures to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least two weeks in advance:  Provided further, That, with 
the exception of any available carryover funds authorized in any prior 
appropriations Act to be used for the purposes of clause (3) of section 
32, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any 
employee of the Department of Agriculture to carry out clause (3) of 
section 32.

    Sec. 715.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2024 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 716. <<NOTE: Notifications. Approvals. Time period.>>  (a) None 
of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure through

[[Page 138 STAT. 105]]

a reprogramming, transfer of funds, or reimbursements as authorized by 
the Economy Act, or in the case of the Department of Agriculture, 
through use of the authority provided by section 702(b) of the 
Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 
8 of Public Law 89-106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;

unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days 
in advance of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such 
authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming or use of the authorities referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress;

unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days 
in advance of the reprogramming or transfer of such funds or the use of 
such authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
shall notify in writing and receive approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before implementing any 
program or activity not carried out during the previous fiscal year 
unless the program or activity is funded by this Act or specifically 
funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves

[[Page 138 STAT. 106]]

        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent of 
        the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request;

unless the agencies funded by this Act notify, in writing, the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days 
in advance of using the funds for these purposes.
    (e) <<NOTE: Confirmation.>> As described in this section, no funds 
may be used for any activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission receives from the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of 
receipt of the notification as required in this section.

    Sec. 717. <<NOTE: Fees.>>  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the 
Secretary may assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and 
industry loan in an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the 
guaranteed principal portion of the loan.

    Sec. 718.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Farm 
Credit Administration shall be used to transmit or otherwise make 
available reports, questions, or responses to questions that are a 
result of information requested for the appropriations hearing process 
to any non-Department of Agriculture, non-Department of Health and Human 
Services, non-Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or non-Farm Credit 
Administration employee.
    Sec. 719. <<NOTE: News stories. Notification.>>  Unless otherwise 
authorized by existing law, none of the funds provided in this Act, may 
be used by an executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged news 
story intended for broadcast or distribution in the United States unless 
the story includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.

    Sec. 720. <<NOTE: Time period. Reimbursement.>>  No employee of the 
Department of Agriculture may be detailed or assigned from an agency or 
office funded by this Act or any other Act to any other agency or office 
of the Department for more than 60 days in a fiscal year unless the 
individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.

    Sec. 721. <<NOTE: Deadline. Spending plan.>>  Not later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, the Chairman of 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Chairman of the Farm 
Credit Administration shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress a detailed spending plan by program, project, 
and activity for all the funds made available under this Act including 
appropriated user fees, as defined in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act).

[[Page 138 STAT. 107]]

    Sec. 722.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 723. <<NOTE: Determination. Prisons and prisoners.>>  For the 
purposes of determining eligibility or level of program assistance for 
Rural Housing Service programs the Secretary shall not include 
incarcerated prison populations.

    Sec. 724. <<NOTE: Loans.>>  For loans and loan guarantees that do 
not require budget authority and the program level has been established 
in this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level 
for such loans and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:  
Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> prior to the 
Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, in 
writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at 
least 15 days in advance.

    Sec. 725. <<NOTE: Notification. Advance approval.>>  None of the 
credit card refunds or rebates transferred to the Working Capital Fund 
pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 
U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be available for obligation 
without written notification to, and the prior approval of, the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided, That 
the refunds or rebates so transferred shall be available for obligation 
only for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, including 
equipment for the improvement, delivery, and implementation of 
Departmental financial management, information technology, and other 
support systems necessary for the delivery of financial, administrative, 
and information technology services, including cloud adoption and 
migration, of primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of 
Agriculture.

    Sec. 726.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the ``variety'' requirements of the 
final rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer Standards in the Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)'' published by the Department of 
Agriculture in the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 
90675) until the Secretary of Agriculture amends the definition of the 
term ``variety'' as defined in section 278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, 
Code of Federal Regulations, and ``variety'' as applied in the 
definition of the term ``staple food'' as defined in section 271.2 of 
title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, to increase the number of items 
that qualify as acceptable varieties in each staple food category so 
that the total number of such items in each staple food category exceeds 
the number of such items in each staple food category included in the 
final rule as published on December 15, 2016:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date.>>  until the Secretary 
promulgates such regulatory amendments, the Secretary shall apply the 
requirements regarding acceptable varieties and breadth of stock to 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program retailers that were in effect 
on the day before the date of the enactment of the Agricultural Act of 
2014 (Public Law 113-79).

    Sec. 727.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture

[[Page 138 STAT. 108]]

shall have the same authority with respect to loans guaranteed under 
such section and eligible lenders for such loans as the Secretary has 
under subsections (h) and (j) of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1490p-2) with respect to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and 
eligible lenders for such loans.
    Sec. 728.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be available for the United States 
Department of Agriculture to propose, finalize or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new user fees pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
9701 after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 729.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the Broadband Treasury Rate Loan 
program, authorized in section 601 of the Rural Electrification Act of 
1936 (7 U.S.C. 950bb), $7,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That 
no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any provision of law that regulates the 
calculation and payment of overtime and holiday pay for FSIS inspectors, 
the Secretary may charge establishments subject to the inspection 
requirements of the Poultry Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 451 et 
seq., the Federal Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 601 et seq, and the Egg 
Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq., for the cost of 
inspection services provided outside of an establishment's approved 
inspection shifts, and for inspection services provided on Federal 
holidays:  Provided, That any sums charged pursuant to this paragraph 
shall be deemed as overtime pay or holiday pay under section 1001(d) of 
the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2, 135 Stat. 242):  
Provided further, That sums received by the Secretary under this 
paragraph shall, in addition to other available funds, remain available 
until expended to the Secretary without further appropriation for the 
purpose of funding all costs associated with FSIS inspections.
    Sec. 731. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) <<NOTE: Audits. Evaluations.>> conduct audits in a 
        manner that evaluates the following factors in the country or 
        region being audited, as applicable--
                    (A) veterinary control and oversight;
                    (B) disease history and vaccination practices;
                    (C) livestock demographics and traceability;
                    (D) epidemiological separation from potential 
                sources of infection;
                    (E) surveillance practices;
                    (F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
                    (G) emergency preparedness and response; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Public information. Reports.>> promptly make 
        publicly available the final reports of any audits or reviews 
        conducted pursuant to paragraph (1).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with United States obligations under its international 
trade agreements.

    Sec. 732.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the rural housing voucher program 
authorized by section 542 of the Housing Act of 1949, (42 U.S.C. 1471 et 
seq.), as amended, $35,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 109]]

    Sec. 733.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available under the heading ``Rural Cooperative 
Development Grants'' for Agriculture Innovation Centers authorized by 
section 6402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 
U.S.C. 1632b), as amended, $7,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 734. <<NOTE: Iron and steel products.>> (a)(1) No Federal funds 
made available for this fiscal year for the rural water, waste water, 
waste disposal, and solid waste management programs authorized by 
sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall be used for a 
project for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a 
public water or wastewater system unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.

    (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>> In this section, the term ``iron and steel 
products'' means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: 
lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal 
castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Secretary of Agriculture (in this section referred to as 
the ``Secretary'') or the designee of the Secretary finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or of a 
        satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.

    (c) <<NOTE: Waiver request. Public information. Records. Time 
period.>> If the Secretary or the designee receives a request for a 
waiver under this section, the Secretary or the designee shall make 
available to the public on an informal basis a copy of the request and 
information available to the Secretary or the designee concerning the 
request, and shall allow for informal public input on the request for at 
least 15 days prior to making a finding based on the request. 
The <<NOTE: Web posting.>> Secretary or the designee shall make the 
request and accompanying information available by electronic means, 
including on the official public Internet Web site of the Department.

    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with United States obligations under international 
agreements.

    (e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for ``Rural Utilities Service--Rural Water and 
Waste Disposal Program Account'' for carrying out the provisions 
described in subsection (a)(1) for management and oversight of the 
requirements of this section.
    (f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a project for 
which the engineering plans and specifications include use of iron and 
steel products otherwise prohibited by such subsection

[[Page 138 STAT. 110]]

if the plans and specifications have received required approvals from 
State agencies prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
    (g) <<NOTE: Definition.>> For purposes of this section, the terms 
``United States'' and ``State'' shall include each of the several 
States, the District of Columbia, and each Federally recognized Indian 
Tribe.

    Sec. 735. <<NOTE: Lobbying.>>  None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act may be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
congressional action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending 
before Congress, other than to communicate to Members of Congress as 
described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

    Sec. 736. <<NOTE: Allocations.>>  Of the total amounts made 
available by this Act for direct loans and grants under the following 
headings: ``Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program 
Account''; ``Rural Housing Service--Mutual and Self-Help Housing 
Grants''; ``Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing Assistance Grants''; 
``Rural Housing Service--Rural Community Facilities Program Account''; 
``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural Business Program Account''; 
``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural Economic Development Loans 
Program Account''; ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural 
Cooperative Development Grants''; ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--
Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program''; ``Rural Utilities 
Service--Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account''; ``Rural 
Utilities Service--Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans 
Program Account''; and ``Rural Utilities Service--Distance Learning, 
Telemedicine, and Broadband Program'', to the maximum extent feasible, 
at least 10 percent of the funds shall be allocated for assistance in 
persistent poverty counties under this section, including, 
notwithstanding any other provision regarding population limits, any 
county seat of such a persistent poverty county that has a population 
that does not exceed the authorized population limit by more than 10 
percent:  Provided, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That for purposes of this 
section, the term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county that 
has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the 
past 30 years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses, and 
2007-2011 American Community Survey 5-year average, or any territory or 
possession of the United States:  Provided further, That 
with <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  respect to specific activities for which 
program levels have been made available by this Act that are not 
supported by budget authority, the requirements of this section shall be 
applied to such program level.

    Sec. 737. <<NOTE: Human embryos.>>  None of the funds made available 
by this Act may be used to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge 
receipt of a submission for an exemption for investigational use of a 
drug or biological product under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section 351(a)(3) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a 
human embryo is intentionally created or modified to include a heritable 
genetic modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to have not 
been received by the Secretary, and the exemption may not go into 
effect.

    Sec. 738.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to enforce the final rule promulgated by the Food and Drug 
Administration entitled ``Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption'', and published 
on November 27, 2015, with respect

[[Page 138 STAT. 111]]

to the regulation of entities that grow, harvest, pack, or hold wine 
grapes, hops, pulse crops, or almonds.
    Sec. 739. <<NOTE: Time periods. School breakfast.>>  For school 
years 2023-2024 and 2024-2025, none of the funds made available by this 
Act may be used to implement or enforce the matter following the first 
comma in the second sentence of footnote (c) of section 220.8(c) of 
title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, with respect to the substitution 
of vegetables for fruits under the school breakfast program established 
under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773).

    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act may be used--
            (1) in contravention of section 7606 of the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940), subtitle G of the Agricultural 
        Marketing Act of 1946, or section 10114 of the Agriculture 
        Improvement Act of 2018; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Hemp and hemp seeds.>>  to prohibit the 
        transportation, processing, sale, or use of hemp, or seeds of 
        such plant, that is grown or cultivated in accordance with 
        section 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 or subtitle G of 
        the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, within or outside the 
        State in which the hemp is grown or cultivated.

    Sec. 741. <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>   The Secretary of Agriculture 
may waive the matching funds requirement under section 412(g) of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 
U.S.C. 7632(g)).

    Sec. 742. <<NOTE: Reports. Foreign investments. Disclosures. 7 USC 
3501 note.>>  The Secretary, as part of the report on foreign 
landholding required under the Agricultural Foreign Investment 
Disclosure Act (Public Law 95-460), shall report to Congress on foreign 
investments in agricultural land in the United States, including the 
impact foreign ownership has on family farms, rural communities, and the 
domestic food supply:  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Process. Data.>> That 
within 2 years after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
establish a streamlined process for electronic submission and retention 
of disclosures made under the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure 
Act, including an internet database that contains disaggregated data 
from each disclosure submitted:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Publication. Plan. Process. Confidentiality.>> That all 
prior year disclosures of foreign investments in agricultural land in 
the United States are published in the database:  Provided further, That 
the plan includes a process to ensure the protection of personally 
identifiable information and that all disclosures of foreign investments 
in agricultural land on the USDA website be disaggregated by: (1) in any 
case in which such foreign person is an individual, the citizenship of 
such foreign person; and (2) in any case in which such foreign person is 
not an individual or a government, the nature of the legal entity 
holding the interest, the country in which such foreign person is 
created or organized, and the principal place of business of such 
foreign person.

    Sec. 743.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for a pilot program for the Secretary to 
provide grants to qualified non-profit organizations and public housing 
authorities to provide technical assistance, including financial and 
legal services, to RHS multi-family housing borrowers to facilitate the 
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing properties in areas where the 
Secretary determines a risk of loss of affordable housing, by non-profit 
housing organizations and public housing

[[Page 138 STAT. 112]]

authorities as authorized by law that commit to keep such properties in 
the RHS multi-family housing program for a period of time as determined 
by the Secretary.
    Sec. 744.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available under the heading ``Rural Housing 
Assistance Grants'' for housing repair grants authorized by section 504 
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1474), as amended, $28,000,000 are 
hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 745. <<NOTE: Compliance. 21 USC 343 note.>>  (a) After the 
effective date of any final rule the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
publishes in connection with its proposed rule to update these 
requirements (87 Federal Register 59168, issued on September 29, 2022), 
manufacturers may also continue to comply with the previous requirements 
promulgated by the FDA for the implied nutrient content claim 
``healthy'' through the ``compliance date'' FDA provides in the final 
rule.

    (b) Any food product manufactured and labeled as ``healthy'' during 
the compliance period FDA provides in that final rule shall not be 
directly or indirectly subject to any state-law requirements that are 
not identical to either (i) the Federal requirements for the implied 
nutrition content claim ``healthy'' that were in effect as of the date 
FDA issues the final rule, or (ii) the updated Federal requirements that 
FDA promulgates in the final rule, assuming the updated requirements go 
into effect during the regulatory compliance period.
    Sec. 746. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Funds made available under title 
II of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) may only be used to 
provide assistance to recipient nations if adequate monitoring and 
controls, as determined by the Administrator, are in place to ensure 
that emergency food aid is received by the intended beneficiaries in 
areas affected by food shortages and not diverted for unauthorized or 
inappropriate purposes.

    Sec. 747. <<NOTE: Contracts. Poultry and poultry 
products. Seafood. China. School lunches.>>  None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used to procure raw or processed poultry 
products or seafood imported into the United States from the People's 
Republic of China for use in the school lunch program under the Richard 
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the Child 
and Adult Care Food Program under section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1766), the Summer Food Service Program for Children under section 13 of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761), or the school breakfast program under the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.).

    Sec. 748. <<NOTE: Time period. Requirement. School lunches.>>  For 
school year 2024-2025, only a school food authority that had a negative 
balance in the nonprofit school food service account as of June 30, 
2023, shall be required to establish a price for paid lunches in 
accordance with section 12(p) of the Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(p)).

    Sec. 749. <<NOTE: Grants. Science and technology. Research and 
development.>>  Any funds made available by this or any other Act that 
the Secretary withholds pursuant to section 1668(g)(2) of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5921(g)(2)), 
as amended, shall be available for grants for biotechnology risk 
assessment research:  Provided, That the Secretary may transfer such 
funds among appropriations of the Department of Agriculture for purposes 
of making such grants.

[[Page 138 STAT. 113]]

    Sec. 750.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
available to the Department of Agriculture may be used to move any staff 
office or any agency from the mission area in which it was located on 
August 1, 2018, to any other mission area or office within the 
Department in the absence of the enactment of specific legislation 
affirming such move.
    Sec. 751.  The Secretary, acting through the Chief of the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, may use funds appropriated under this 
Act or any other Act for the Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations 
Program and the Watershed Rehabilitation Program carried out pursuant to 
the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001 et 
seq.), and for the Emergency Watershed Protection Program carried out 
pursuant to section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 2203) to provide technical services for such programs pursuant to 
section 1252(a)(1) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3851(a)(1)), notwithstanding subsection (c) of such section.
    Sec. 752. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  In administering the pilot 
program established by section 779 of division A of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141), the Secretary of 
Agriculture may, for purposes of determining entities eligible to 
receive assistance, consider those communities which are ``Areas Rural 
in Character'':  Provided, That not more than 10 percent of the funds 
made available under the heading ``Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and 
Broadband Program'' for the purposes of the pilot program established by 
section 779 of Public Law 115-141 may be used for this purpose.

    Sec. 753.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this 
Act and notwithstanding the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310, there is 
appropriated $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
implement non-renewable agreements on eligible lands, including flooded 
agricultural lands, as determined by the Secretary, under the Water Bank 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311).
    Sec. 754. <<NOTE: Deadline. Fish and fishing.>>  Out of amounts 
appropriated to the Food and Drug Administration under title VI, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner 
of Food and Drugs, shall, not later than September 30, 2024, and 
following the review required under Executive Order No. 12866 (5 U.S.C. 
601 note; relating to regulatory planning and review), issue advice 
revising the advice provided in the notice of availability entitled 
``Advice About Eating Fish, From the Environmental Protection Agency and 
Food and Drug Administration; Revised Fish Advice; Availability'' (82 
Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19, 2017)), in a manner that is consistent with 
nutrition science recognized by the Food and Drug Administration on the 
net effects of seafood consumption.

    Sec. 755.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is 
hereby appropriated $3,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
the Meat and Poultry Processing Expansion Program established pursuant 
to section 1001(b)(4) of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public 
Law 117-2) to award grants to processors of invasive, wild-caught 
catfish.
    Sec. 756. <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  The Secretary shall set aside 
for Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zones, until August 15, 2024, 
an amount of funds made available in title III under the headings of 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help 
Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance Grants, Rural Community 
Facilities Program Account, Rural Business Program Account,

[[Page 138 STAT. 114]]

Rural Development Loan Fund Program Account, and Rural Water and Waste 
Disposal Program Account, equal to the amount obligated in REAP Zones 
with respect to funds provided under such headings in the most recent 
fiscal year any such funds were obligated under such headings for REAP 
Zones, excluding the funding provided through any Community Project 
Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending.

    Sec. 757. <<NOTE: 12 USC 2128 note.>>  In this fiscal year and each 
fiscal year thereafter, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
none of the funds made available by this or any other Act may be used to 
implement section 3.7(f) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 in a manner 
inconsistent with section 343(a)(13) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act.

    Sec. 758. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1769 note.>>  (a) For an additional amount 
for the Office of the Secretary, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out no more than 10 
pilot projects, under the terms and conditions determined by the 
Secretary for a period not to exceed 2 years, that award grants to an 
Indian tribe; a tribal organization approved by an Indian tribe; a 
tribal educational agency; a consortium of Indian tribes; or a 
partnership between an Indian tribe and either a State educational 
agency, a local educational agency, a tribal educational agency, or the 
Bureau of Indian Education to operate and implement the school lunch 
program as authorized by the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1769), the summer food service program as established 
under section 13 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 
the child and adult care food program as established by section 17 of 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, or the school 
breakfast program established by the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 1773) in either a Bureau-funded school (as defined in section 
1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)); a school (as 
defined in section 12(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1760 (d)) on or near an Indian reservation; or an early 
child care and education facility:  Provided, That to carry out this 
pilot program each grant awarded shall be no less than $10,000 and no 
more than $100,000 for each school year and shall not increase state 
administrative costs or the amount of benefits provided in any program:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That the term ``Indian tribe'' 
has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).

    (b) <<NOTE: Reimbursement. School lunch. School breakfast.>>  
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a pilot project grant 
recipient shall be reimbursed for meals served under the school lunch 
program, the summer food service program, and the child and adult care 
food program as if the recipient were a State under the Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act; and under the school breakfast 
program as if the recipient were a State educational agency.

    (c) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than 1 year after the conclusion of 
the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
the outcomes of the pilot program.

    Sec. 759. <<NOTE: Listeria monocytogenes.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used by the 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to issue or promote any new 
guidelines or regulations applicable to food manufacturers for Listeria 
monocytogenes (Lm) until the FDA considers the available new science in 
developing the Compliance Policy Guide (CPG), Guidance for FDA Staff, 
Sec.

[[Page 138 STAT. 115]]

55.320 Listeria monocytogenes--regarding Lm in low-risk foods, meaning 
foods that do not support the growth of Lm.

    Sec. 760.  Section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c) 
is amended in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking ``two years'' and 
inserting ``five years''.
    Sec. 761.  Section 524 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490d) 
is amended in subsection (a)(1) by striking ``two years'' and inserting 
``five years''.
    Sec. 762.  Section 363 of the Multifamily Mortgage Foreclosure Act 
of 1981 (12 U.S.C. 3702) is amended at paragraph (10) by inserting after 
``Secretary of Housing Urban Development'' the following: ``and the 
Secretary of Agriculture''.
    Sec. 763.  <<NOTE: Assessment.>> None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used by the Food and Drug 
Administration to develop, issue, promote or advance any final 
guidelines or new regulations applicable to food manufacturers for long-
term population-wide sodium reduction actions until an assessment is 
completed on the impact of the short-term sodium reduction targets.

    Sec. 764.  There is hereby appropriated $2,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, for a Bison Production and Marketing 
Grant Program that the Agricultural Marketing Service shall develop and 
maintain:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That this program shall be 
similar, as determined by the Secretary, to the Sheep Production and 
Marketing Grant Program the Department of Agriculture currently 
maintains pursuant to section 209(c) of the Agricultural Marketing Act 
of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1627a(c)), and shall prioritize grants to national 
non-profits and federally chartered Tribal organizations that have 
expertise in bison production or marketing.

    Sec. 765.  Notwithstanding the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1622 et seq.) and 9 CFR part 352, the Committee provides an 
additional $700,000 to the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service to 
cover voluntary meat inspection fees for the slaughtering or processing 
of bison/buffalo at Native American owned establishments or 
establishments operating on tribal lands.
    Sec. 766.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the Rural Water Operation Program 
under the heading ``Natural Resources Conservation Service--Watershed 
and Flood Prevention Operations'', $28,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 767.  <<NOTE: Determination. 5 USC 5547 note.>> If services 
performed by APHIS employees are determined by the Administrator of the 
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to be in response to an 
animal disease outbreak, any premium pay that is funded, either directly 
or through reimbursement, shall be exempted from the aggregate of basic 
pay and premium pay calculated under section 5547 of title 5, United 
States Code, and any other provision of law limiting the aggregate 
amount of premium pay payable on a biweekly or calendar year basis:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>> That this section shall take effect 
as if enacted on January 1, 2023.

    Sec. 768.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel--
            (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
        Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);

[[Page 138 STAT. 116]]

            (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
        note; Public Law 104-127); or
            (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).

    Sec. 769.  <<NOTE: Reimbursement. 42 USC 1758 note.>> Any rule-
making, notice or guidance of or regarding USDA Proposed Rule (Child 
Nutrition Programs: Revisions to Meal Patterns Consistent With the 2020 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans; RIN 0584-AE88) shall allow and provide 
meal reimbursement for (or ``low fat or fat free'') flavored milk in 
National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program for grades 
Kindergarten through 12th grade and in Child and Adult Care Food Program 
for participants 6 years of age and older, and for any other program 
complying with the meal pattern requirements covered in such final rule.

    Sec. 770.  <<NOTE: Time periods. 42 USC 1758 note.>> Sodium limits 
in effect for School Year 2023-2024 in child nutrition meal patterns 
shall remain effective through School Year 2026-2027, after which sodium 
limits that may be included in any rulemaking, notice or guidance of or 
regarding USDA Proposed Rule (Child Nutrition Programs: Revisions to 
Meal Patterns Consistent With the 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans; 
RIN 0584-AE88), shall not be more restrictive than the Target 2 sodium 
levels published in the final rule entitled ``Nutrition Standards in the 
National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs'' published by the 
Department of Agriculture in the Federal Register on January 26, 2012 
(77 Fed. Reg 4087).

    Sec. 771.  There is hereby appropriated $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out section 2103 of Public Law 115-
334:  Provided, That the Secretary shall prioritize the wetland 
compliance needs of areas with significant numbers of individual 
wetlands, wetland acres, and conservation compliance requests.
    Sec. 772.  There is appropriated $3,000,000 for the emergency and 
transitional pet shelter and housing assistance grant program 
established under section 12502(b) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 
2018 (34 U.S.C. 20127).
    Sec. 773.  <<NOTE: Alcohol and alcoholic beverages.>> The National 
Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine (NASEM) were tasked with 
providing findings and recommendations on alcohol consumption for the 
purposes of inclusion in the 2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans as 
required by Section 772 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328):  Provided, That the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services and the Secretary of Agriculture shall consider the 
findings and recommendations of the NASEM report in the development of 
the 2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and further, both Secretaries 
shall ensure that the alcohol consumption recommendations in the 2025 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans shall be based on the preponderance of 
scientific and medical knowledge consistent with section 5341 of title 7 
of United States Code.

    Sec. 774.  The first proviso under the heading ``Rural Community 
Facilities Program Account'' in title I of division N of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 <<NOTE: 136 Stat. 5202.>> (Public 
Law 117-328) is amended by inserting ``or to repair or replace essential 
community facilities damaged by a disaster that occurred in calendar 
year 2023'' after ``calendar year 2022'':  Provided, That amounts 
repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget are designated as an emergency

[[Page 138 STAT. 117]]

requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 775.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the Rural Energy for American program 
authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act 
of 2002, (7 U.S.C. 8107), $10,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 776.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available in Section 2304 of the American Rescue 
Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2), $30,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 777.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available under Division A, Title IV, under the 
heading ``Nutrition Programs Administration'' for relocation expenses 
and the alteration and repair of buildings and improvement pursuant to 7 
U.S.C. 2250 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 
115-31), $8,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 778.  Of the unobligated balances available in fiscal year 2024 
in the ``Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'' established in section 742 of 
division A of Public Law 113-235, and in addition to any funds otherwise 
made available for such purposes in this, prior, or subsequent fiscal 
years, the following shall be available during the period of 
availability of the Fund for the specified purposes and in the specified 
amounts--
            (1) for grants for rural community facilities programs as 
        authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of 
        the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $505,023,927 
        for the purposes, and in the amounts specified in the table 
        titled ``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed 
        Spending'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 
        (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), 
        and under the same authorities and conditions as amounts made 
        available by this Act in the second paragraph under the heading 
        ``Rural Community Facilities Program Account''; and
            (2) for expenses during fiscal year 2024, not otherwise 
        recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including 
        interest thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-
        480), for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
        abroad under title II of said Act, $68,476,073, under the same 
        authorities and conditions as amounts made available by this Act 
        under the heading ``Food for Peace Title II Grants'':

  Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were 
previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 779.  Section 2250b of title 7, United States Code, is hereby 
amended in the second proviso by striking ``capital acquisition'' and 
after ``infrastructure'' inserting ``and information technology 
services.''

[[Page 138 STAT. 118]]

    Sec. 780.  <<NOTE: Applicability. Time periods. 7 USC 940c-2 
note.>> Section 313B(a) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 940c-2(a)), shall be applied for fiscal year 2024 and each fiscal 
year thereafter until the specified funding has been expended as if the 
following were inserted after the final period: ``In addition, the 
Secretary shall use $9,465,000 of the funds available to carry out this 
section in fiscal year 2024 for an additional amount for the same 
purpose and under the same terms and conditions as the Rural Business 
Development Grants authorized by section 310B of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(c)).''.

    Sec. 781.  <<NOTE: Genetic engineering.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the acceptable market name of any engineered animal 
approved prior to the effective date of the National Bioengineered Food 
Disclosure Standard (February 19, 2019) shall include the words 
``genetically engineered'' prior to the existing acceptable market name.

    Sec. 782.  For an additional amount for the Office of the Secretary, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended, to continue the 
Institute for Rural Partnerships as established in section 778 of Public 
Law 117-103:  Provided, <<NOTE: Continuation. Urban and rural 
areas.>> That the Institute for Rural Partnerships shall continue to 
dedicate resources to researching the causes and conditions of 
challenges facing rural areas, and develop community partnerships to 
address such challenges:  Provided further, That administrative or other 
fees shall not exceed one percent:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Coordination. Publication. Reports.>> That such 
partnership shall coordinate and publish an annual report.

    Sec. 783.  There is hereby appropriated $500,000 to carry out the 
duties of the working group established under section 770 of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-6; 133 Stat. 
89).
    Sec. 784.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for conservation activities under the 
heading ``Natural Resources Conservation Service--Conservation 
Operations'', $30,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 785.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture--Research and Education Activities'', $37,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that 
were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 786.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for section 306E(b) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act to provide subgrants to eligible individuals 
for the construction, refurbishing, and servicing of individually owned 
household decentralized wastewater systems.
    Sec. 787.  <<NOTE: Determination.>> The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall be included as a member of the Committee on Foreign Investment in 
the United States (CFIUS) on a case by case basis pursuant to the 
authorities in section 721(k)(2)(J) of the Defense Production Act of 
1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(k)(2)(J)) with respect to each covered transaction 
(as defined in section 721(a)(4) of the Defense Production Act of 1950

[[Page 138 STAT. 119]]

(50 U.S.C. 4565(a)(4))) involving agricultural land, agriculture 
biotechnology, or the agriculture industry (including agricultural 
transportation, agricultural storage, and agricultural processing), as 
determined by the CFIUS Chairperson in coordination with the Secretary 
of Agriculture. <<NOTE: Notification. Foreign countries.>> The Secretary 
of Agriculture shall, to the maximum extent practicable, notify the 
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States of any agricultural 
land transaction that the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to 
believe, based on information from or in cooperation with the 
Intelligence Community, is a covered transaction (A) that may pose a 
risk to the national security of the United States, with particular 
emphasis on covered transactions of an interest in agricultural land by 
foreign governments or entities of concern, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 
19221(a), including the People's Republic of China, the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, and the Islamic 
Republic of Iran; and (B) with respect to which a person is required to 
submit a report to the Secretary of Agriculture under section 2(a) of 
the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
3501(a)):  Provided, That there is hereby appropriated $2,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, in addition to amounts otherwise 
provided for such purpose, to carry out this section.

    Sec. 788.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available in the ``Working Capital Fund'', 
$78,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be 
rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 789.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for the ``Community Connect Grant 
Program'', $30,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts 
may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 790.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available under the heading ``Distance Learning, 
Telemedicine, and Broadband Program'', other than amounts made available 
for the Community Connect Grant Program, $18,891,000 are hereby 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that 
were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 791.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations made available for veterinary diagnostics under the 
heading ``Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Salaries and 
Expenses account'', $5,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 792.  <<NOTE: Reimbursement. Contracts.>> The agencies and 
offices of the Department of Agriculture may reimburse the Office of the 
General Counsel (OGC), out of the funds provided in this Act, for costs 
incurred by OGC in providing services to such agencies or offices under 
time-limited

[[Page 138 STAT. 120]]

agreements entered into with such agencies and offices:  Provided, That 
such transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law.

    Sec. 793. (a) Section 260 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 
(7 U.S.C. 1636i) is amended by striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Section 942 of the Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act of 1999 (7 
U.S.C. 1635 note; Public Law 106-78) is amended by striking ``2023'' and 
inserting ``2024''.
    This division may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2024''.





__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 121]]

 DIVISION C-- <<NOTE: Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
  Appropriations Act, 2024.>> COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED 
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

   TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2024.>>  I

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, to carry out activities 
associated with facilitating, attracting, and retaining business 
investment in the United States, to carry out activities associated with 
title VI of division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 
(Public Law 117-328), and for engaging in trade promotional activities 
abroad, including expenses of grants and cooperative agreements for the 
purpose of promoting exports of United States firms, without regard to 
sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United States Code; full medical 
coverage for dependent members of immediate families of employees 
stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel and 
transportation of employees of the International Trade Administration 
between two points abroad, without regard to section 40118 of title 49, 
United States Code; employment of citizens of the United States and 
aliens by contract for services; recognizing contributions to export 
expansion pursuant to Executive Order 10978; rental of space abroad for 
periods not exceeding 10 years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or 
improvement; purchase or construction of temporary demountable 
exhibition structures for use abroad; payment of tort claims, in the 
manner authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, 
United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to 
exceed $294,300 for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 
per vehicle; not to exceed $325,000 for purchase of armored vehicles 
without regard to the general purchase price limitations; obtaining 
insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, 
$623,000,000, of which $85,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $50,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That $12,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be retained and 
used by the International Trade Administration, notwithstanding section 
3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That, of 
amounts provided under this heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be 
for China antidumping and countervailing duty enforcement and 
compliance <<NOTE: Applicability. Assessments.>> activities:  Provided 
further, That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and 
all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out 
these activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions 
under the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act 
of 1961 shall include payment for assessments for services provided as 
part of these activities:  Provided further, That, of amounts provided 
under this heading, up to $3,000,000, to remain

[[Page 138 STAT. 122]]

available until expended, shall be for the purpose of carrying out a 
pilot fellowship program of the United States Commercial Service under 
which the Secretary of Commerce may make competitive grants to 
appropriate institutions of higher education or students to increase the 
level of knowledge and awareness of, and interest in employment with, 
that Service among minority students:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Grants. Regulations. Requirement.>>  any grants awarded 
under such program shall be made pursuant to regulations to be 
prescribed by the Secretary, which shall require as a condition of the 
initial receipt of grant funds, a commitment by prospective grantees to 
accept full-time employment in the Global Markets unit of the 
International Trade Administration upon the completion of participation 
in the program.

                     Bureau of Industry and Security

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the 
first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $13,500 for 
official representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to 
informers under the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle B of 
title XVII of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et 
seq.), and as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 
Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to any price 
limitation otherwise established by law, $191,000,000, of which 
$76,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading for activities under the 
``revised nonsecurity category'', as defined in section 250(c)(4)(E) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99-177), as amended, $20,000,000 is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Applicability.>> the provisions of the 
first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these <<NOTE: Public 
information.>> activities:  Provided further, That payments and 
contributions collected and accepted for materials or services provided 
as part of such activities may be retained for use in covering the cost 
of such activities, and for providing information to the public with 
respect to the export administration and national security activities of 
the Department of Commerce and other export control programs of the 
United States and other governments.

[[Page 138 STAT. 123]]

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade adjustment 
assistance, and for grants authorized by sections 27, 28, and 30 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722, 
3722a, and 3723), as amended, $400,000,000 to remain available until 
expended, of which $50,000,000 shall be for grants under section 27, 
$41,000,000 shall be for grants under section 28, and $2,500,000 shall 
be for grants under section 30:  Provided, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $30,000,000 is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985:  Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided 
under this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures 
set forth in section 505 of this Act.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $68,000,000:  Provided, That 
funds provided under this heading may be used to monitor projects 
approved pursuant to title I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976; 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974; sections 27 through 30 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722-
3723), as amended; and the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 
1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                      minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Minority Business Development Agency 
in fostering, promoting, and developing minority business enterprises, 
as authorized by law, $68,250,000.

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$125,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                          Bureau of the Census

                      current surveys and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $328,500,000: 
 Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
promotion, outreach, and marketing activities.

[[Page 138 STAT. 124]]

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics for periodic censuses and programs 
provided for by law, $1,054,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2025:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $57,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: Fees.>>  31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of 
Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum 
management, analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees 
shall be retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such 
spectrum services, to remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use 
as offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs incurred in 
telecommunications research, engineering, and related activities by the 
Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its 
assigned functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from 
other Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

     public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available for 
the administration of all open grants until their expiration.

                 facilities management and construction

    For necessary expenses for the design, construction, alteration, 
improvement, maintenance, and repair of buildings and facilities managed 
by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                United States Patent and Trademark Office

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of suits 
instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual 
Property and Director of the USPTO, $4,195,799,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as offsetting

[[Page 138 STAT. 125]]

collections of fees and surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO 
under any law are received during fiscal year 2024, so as to result in a 
fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That during fiscal year 2024, 
should the total amount of such offsetting collections be less than 
$4,195,799,000, this amount shall be reduced accordingly:  Provided 
further, That any amount received in excess of $4,195,799,000 in fiscal 
year 2024 and deposited in the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Spending plan.>> That the Director of USPTO shall 
submit a spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That the budget of the 
President submitted for fiscal year 2025 under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall include within amounts provided under this 
heading for necessary expenses of the USPTO any increases that are 
expected to result from an increase promulgated through rule or 
regulation in offsetting collections of fees and surcharges assessed and 
collected by the USPTO under any law in either fiscal year 2024 or 
fiscal year 2025:  Provided further, That from amounts provided herein, 
not to exceed $13,500 shall be made available in fiscal year 2024 for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That 
in fiscal year <<NOTE: Determination.>>  2024 from the amounts made 
available for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts 
necessary to pay (1) the difference between the percentage of basic pay 
contributed by the USPTO and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, 
United States Code, and the normal cost percentage (as defined by 
section 8331(17) of that title) as provided by the Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) for USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees 
subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the 
present value of the otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by 
OPM for USPTO's specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-
retirement health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are 
enrolled in Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal 
Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the 
Employees FEHB Fund, as appropriate, and shall be available for the 
authorized purposes of those accounts:  Provided further, That any 
differences between the present value factors published in OPM's yearly 
300 series benefit letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's 
specific use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial 
statements, where applicable:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and 
collected by USPTO are available for USPTO only pursuant to section 
42(c) of title 35, United States Code, as amended by section 22 of the 
Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  Provided further, 
That within the amounts appropriated, $2,450,000 shall be transferred to 
the ``Office of Inspector

[[Page 138 STAT. 126]]

General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
investigations and audits related to the USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), $1,080,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund'':  Provided, That of the amounts appropriated under this 
heading, $222,841,000 shall be made available for the NIST--STRS 
projects, and in the amounts, specified in the table titled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included for this 
division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided 
further, That the amounts made available for the projects referenced in 
the preceding proviso may not be transferred for any other purpose:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That NIST may 
provide local transportation for summer undergraduate research 
fellowship program participants.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
$212,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $175,000,000 
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, and of 
which $37,000,000 shall be for the Manufacturing USA Program.

                   construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, and for renovation and maintenance of existing 
facilities, not otherwise provided for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, as authorized by sections 13 through 15 of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-
278e), $168,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
of the amounts appropriated under this heading, $80,242,000 shall be 
made available for the NIST--Construction projects, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending'' included for this division in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided further, That up to one 
percent of amounts made available for the projects referenced in the 
preceding proviso may be used for the administrative costs of such 
projects:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Spending plan.>> the Director 
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall submit a 
spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth

[[Page 138 STAT. 127]]

in that section:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Budget estimates. Time 
periods. 15 USC 1513b note.>> That the Secretary of Commerce shall 
include in the budget justification materials for fiscal year 2025 that 
the Secretary submits to Congress in support of the Department of 
Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each 
National Institute of Standards and Technology construction project 
having a total multi-year program cost of more than $5,000,000, and 
simultaneously the budget justification materials shall include an 
estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such project for each of 
the 5 subsequent fiscal years.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), including 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; pilot programs 
for State-led fisheries management, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law; grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations 
for the purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative 
agreements; and relocation of facilities, $4,548,485,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That fees and donations 
received by the National Ocean Service for the management of national 
marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for the salaries and 
expenses associated with those activities, notwithstanding section 3302 
of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That in addition, 
$369,522,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'', which shall only be used for fishery activities 
related to the Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant Program; Fisheries Data 
Collections, Surveys, and Assessments; Observers and Training; Fisheries 
Management Programs and Services; and Interjurisdictional Fisheries 
Grants:  Provided further, That not to exceed $71,299,000 shall be for 
payment to the ``Department of Commerce Working Capital Fund'':  
Provided further, That of the $4,946,007,000 provided for in direct 
obligations under this heading, $4,548,485,000 is appropriated from the 
general fund, $369,522,000 is provided by transfer, and $28,000,000 is 
derived from recoveries of prior year obligations:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, $139,499,000 shall 
be made available for the NOAA--CZM and NOAA--ORF projects, and in the 
amounts, specified in the table titled ``Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending'' included for this division in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided further, That the 
amounts made available for the projects referenced in the preceding 
proviso may not be transferred for any other purpose:  Provided further, 
That any deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities 
in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act), or any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in previous 
years, shall be subject to the procedures

[[Page 138 STAT. 128]]

set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That in 
addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the Retired 
Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and for 
payments for the medical care of retired personnel and their dependents 
under the Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as 
may be necessary.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, $1,719,866,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, except that funds provided for acquisition and 
construction of vessels and aircraft, and construction of facilities 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the amounts 
made available in the matter preceding this proviso, $100,000,000 is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That in addition, 
$44,000,000 shall be derived by transfer for the purposes provided under 
this heading from the unobligated balances in the Fund established in 
section 111(a) of division B of Public Law 116-93:  Provided further, 
That no amounts may be transferred pursuant to the preceding proviso 
from amounts made available in section 101(e)(1) of title I of division 
A of Public Law 118-5:  Provided further, That of the $1,776,866,000 
provided for in direct obligations under this heading, $1,719,866,000 is 
appropriated from the general fund, $13,000,000 is provided from 
recoveries of prior year obligations, and $44,000,000 is provided by 
transfer:  Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided 
under this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures 
set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary <<NOTE: Budget estimates. Time periods. 15 USC 1513a note.>>  
of Commerce shall include in budget justification materials for fiscal 
year 2025 that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of the 
Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget of the 
President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an 
estimate for each National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
procurement, acquisition or construction project having a total of more 
than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget justification shall 
include an estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such project 
for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal years.

                     pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025:  Provided, <<NOTE: Grants. State listing. Native 
Americans. Conservation. Guidelines.>> That, of the funds provided 
herein, the Secretary of Commerce may issue grants to the States of 
Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the 
federally recognized Tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast 
(including Alaska), for projects necessary for conservation of salmon

[[Page 138 STAT. 129]]

and steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or endangered, 
or that are identified by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for 
maintaining populations necessary for exercise of Tribal treaty fishing 
rights or native subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific 
coastal salmon and steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be 
developed by the Secretary of Commerce:  Provided further, That all 
funds shall be allocated based on scientific and other merit principles 
and shall not be available for marketing activities:  Provided further, 
That funds disbursed to States shall be subject to a matching 
requirement of funds or documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 
percent of the Federal funds.

                      fisheries disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses of administering the fishery disaster 
assistance programs authorized by the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act (Public Law 94-265) and the 
Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act (title III of Public Law 99-659), 
$300,000.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $349,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                    fisheries finance program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2024, obligations of direct loans may not exceed 
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$150,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.

recreational <<NOTE: Assessment. Fees.>> quota entity fund

    For carrying out the provisions of section 106 of the Driftnet 
Modernization and Bycatch Reduction Act (title I of division S of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328)), the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may assess and collect 
fees pursuant to such section, which shall be credited to this account, 
to remain available until expended, for the purposes specified in 
subsection (b) of such section, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available for such purposes.

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the management of the Department of 
Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed $4,500 for 
official reception and representation, $94,500,000:  Provided, That no 
employee <<NOTE: Time period. Reimbursement.>> of the Department of 
Commerce may be detailed or assigned from a bureau or office funded by 
this Act or any other Act to offices within the Office of the Secretary 
of the Department of Commerce for more than 180 days in a fiscal year 
unless the individual's employing bureau or office is fully reimbursed 
for the salary and expenses of the employee for the entire period

[[Page 138 STAT. 130]]

of assignment using funds provided under this heading:  Provided 
further, That amounts made available to the Department of Commerce in 
this or any prior Act may not be transferred pursuant to section 508 of 
this or any prior Act to the account funded under this heading, except 
in the case of extraordinary circumstances that threaten life or 
property.

                      renovation and modernization

    For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization of the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, $1,142,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $48,000,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  During <<NOTE: Payments. Certification.>> the current 
fiscal year, applicable appropriations and funds made available to the 
Department of Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities 
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent 
and in the manner prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3324, may be used for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only 
upon the certification of officials designated by the Secretary of 
Commerce that such payments are in the public interest.

    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers:  Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> That the Secretary of 
Commerce shall notify the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days 
in advance of the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset 
(including land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided 
for in this Act or any other law appropriating funds for the Department 
of Commerce.

    Sec. 104.  The <<NOTE: Incorporation by reference. Applicability. 33 
USC 878a note.>> requirements set forth by section 105 of the Commerce, 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public 
Law 112-55), as amended by section 105 of title I of division B of 
Public Law 113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable 
with respect to fiscal year 2024:  Provided, That the life cycle cost 
for the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000, the life cycle 
cost of the Polar Follow On Program is $6,837,900,000, the life cycle 
cost for the Geostationary

[[Page 138 STAT. 131]]

Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series Program is $11,700,100,000, 
and the life cycle cost for the Space Weather Follow On Program is 
$692,800,000.

    Sec. 105.  <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Commerce may furnish services 
(including but not limited to utilities, telecommunications, and 
security services) necessary to support the operation, maintenance, and 
improvement of space that persons, firms, or organizations are 
authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 
or other authority, to use or occupy in the Herbert C. Hoover Building, 
Washington, DC, or other buildings, the maintenance, operation, and 
protection of which has been delegated to the Secretary from the 
Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a reimbursable or non-
reimbursable basis. Amounts received as reimbursement for services 
provided under this section or the authority under which the use or 
occupancy of the space is authorized, up to $200,000, shall be credited 
to the appropriation or fund which initially bears the costs of such 
services.

    Sec. 106.  <<NOTE: Child pornography.>> Nothing in this title shall 
be construed to prevent a grant recipient from deterring child 
pornography, copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over 
its networks.

    Sec. 107.  <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> The Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, 
with their consent, with reimbursement and subject to the limits of 
available appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
facilities of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States, or of any State, local government, Indian Tribal government, 
Territory, or possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or of 
any foreign government or international organization, for purposes 
related to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute administered 
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

    Sec. 108.  <<NOTE: Records.>> The National Technical Information 
Service shall not charge any customer for a copy of any report or 
document generated by the Legislative Branch unless the Service has 
provided information to the customer on how an electronic copy of such 
report or document may be accessed and downloaded for free online. 
Should a customer <<NOTE: Fee.>> still require the Service to provide a 
printed or digital copy of the report or document, the charge shall be 
limited to recovering the Service's cost of processing, reproducing, and 
delivering such report or document.

    Sec. 109.  To <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>>  carry out the 
responsibilities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA), the Administrator of NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on a non-reimbursable 
basis land, services, equipment, personnel, and facilities provided by; 
and (3) receive and expend funds made available on a consensual basis 
from: a Federal agency, State or subdivision thereof, local government, 
Tribal government, Territory, or possession or any subdivisions thereof: 
 Provided, That funds received for permitting and related regulatory 
activities pursuant to this section shall be deposited under the heading 
``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, 
and Facilities'' and shall remain available until September 30, 2025, 
for such purposes:  Provided further, That all funds within this section 
and their corresponding uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 132]]

    Sec. 110.  Amounts provided by this Act or by any prior 
appropriations Act that remain available for obligation, for necessary 
expenses of the programs of the Economics and Statistics Administration 
of the Department of Commerce, including amounts provided for programs 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall 
be available for expenses of cooperative agreements with appropriate 
entities, including any Federal, State, or local governmental unit, or 
institution of higher education, to aid and promote statistical, 
research, and methodology activities which further the purposes for 
which such amounts have been made available.
    Sec. 111.  <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>> The Secretary of Commerce, or 
the designee of the Secretary, may waive up to 50 percent of the cost 
sharing requirements under section 315, of the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) as necessary at the request of the grant 
applicant, for amounts made available under this Act under the heading 
``Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' under the heading 
``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration''.

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>   Any unobligated 
balances of expired discretionary funds transferred to the Department of 
Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund, as authorized by section 111 of 
title I of division B of Public Law 116-93, may be obligated only after 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of 
funds.

    Sec. 113.  The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere 
is authorized to designate one or more Cooperative Aviation Centers for 
the purposes of recruiting aviators for the NOAA commissioned officer 
corps from institutions that provide a four-year baccalaureate program 
of professional flight and piloting instruction that is accredited by 
the Aviation Accreditation Board International:  Provided, That 
Cooperative Aviation Centers shall be located in a geographic area that 
experiences a wide variation in climate-related activity, such as 
frequent high winds, convective activity (including tornadoes), periods 
of low visibility, heat, and snow and ice episodes, to provide 
opportunities for pilots to demonstrate skill in all weather conditions 
compatible with future encounters during their service in the 
commissioned officer corps of the Administration.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Payments. Alaska.>>  114.  The Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may accept payments from 
a non-Federal party during fiscal year 2024 for the purpose of altering 
or replacing fencing, and related activities, for the Administration's 
port facility in Ketchikan, Alaska. Amounts accepted under this section 
may be credited to the appropriation account otherwise available for 
such purpose and shall remain available until expended.

    Sec. 115.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, in consultation with the employees of the National 
Weather Service and non-governmental experts in personnel management, 
may establish an alternative or fixed rate for relocation allowance, 
including permanent change of station allowance, notwithstanding the 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5724 and the regulations prescribed under 5 
U.S.C. 5738.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2024''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 133]]

TITLE II <<NOTE: Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2024.>> 

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

           Justice Operations, Management, and Accountability

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operations, management, and 
accountability of the Department of Justice, $142,000,000, of which 
$4,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2025, and of which 
not to exceed $4,000,000 for security and construction of Department of 
Justice facilities shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: 28 USC 509 note.>>  That any reference to the 
Department of Justice's ``General Administration'' appropriations 
heading (including references that include its subheadings) which 
appears in any rule, regulation, provision, law, or other official 
document, shall hereafter be deemed a reference to the Department of 
Justice's ``Justice Operations, Management, and Accountability'' 
appropriations heading.

                 justice information sharing technology

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, including 
planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this account, from 
funds available to the Department of Justice for information technology, 
to remain available until expended, for enterprise-wide information 
technology initiatives:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
in the preceding proviso is in addition to any other transfer authority 
contained in this Act:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
the first proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                 Executive Office for Immigration Review

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the administration of immigration-related 
activities of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, $844,000,000, 
of which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Executive 
Office for Immigration Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration 
Examinations Fee'' account, and of which not less than $28,000,000 shall 
be available for services and activities provided by the Legal 
Orientation Program:  Provided, That not to exceed $50,000,000 of the 
total amount made available under this heading shall remain available 
until September 30, 2028, for build-out and modifications of courtroom 
space.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$139,000,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen

[[Page 138 STAT. 134]]

emergencies of a confidential character:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$4,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2025.

                     United States Parole Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $14,000,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Term extension.>>  That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the expiration of a 
term of office of a Commissioner, the Commissioner may continue to act 
until a successor has been appointed.

                            Legal Activities

             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; the administration of pardon and clemency petitions; and rent 
of private or Government-owned space in the District of Columbia, 
$1,090,000,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 for litigation 
support contracts and information technology projects, including 
cybersecurity and hardening of critical networks, shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided for INTERPOL 
Washington dues payments, not to exceed $900,000 shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $8,900 shall be available to INTERPOL 
Washington for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $8,900 
shall be available to the Criminal Division for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by 
the Attorney General that emergent circumstances require additional 
funding for litigation activities of the Civil Division, the Attorney 
General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries and Expenses, General 
Legal Activities'' from available appropriations for the current fiscal 
year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, such sums as may be 
necessary shall be available to the Civil Rights Division for salaries 
and expenses associated with the election monitoring program under 
section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to 
reimburse the Office of Personnel Management for such salaries and 
expenses:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading for the election monitoring program, $3,390,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That any funds provided 
under this heading in prior year appropriations Acts that remain 
available to the Civil

[[Page 138 STAT. 135]]

Rights Division for salaries and expenses associated with the election 
monitoring program under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 
U.S.C. 10305) may also be used to carry out any authorized purposes of 
the Civil Rights Division:  Provided further, That amounts repurposed by 
the preceding proviso may not be used to increase the number of 
permanent positions.

    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, $22,700,000, to be appropriated from the 
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $233,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided, <<NOTE: Fees.>>  That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $233,000,000 
to be derived from fees collected for premerger notification filings 
under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 
U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be retained and 
used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  That 
the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2024, so as 
to result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 
605 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 (15 U.S.C. 18a note), none 
of the funds credited to this account as offsetting collections during 
the current fiscal year shall become available for obligation in any 
fiscal year except as provided in the preceding two provisos or as 
provided in a subsequent appropriations Act.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$2,611,000,000:  Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to 
exceed $19,600 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$40,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Human trafficking.>>  each United States Attorney shall 
establish or participate in a task force on human trafficking.

                    united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $245,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits of 
discretionary offsetting collections to the United States Trustee System 
Fund and amounts herein appropriated shall be available in such amounts 
as may be necessary to pay refunds due depositors:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees deposited into 
the Fund as discretionary offsetting collections pursuant to section 
589a of title 28, United States Code (as limited by section 589a(f)(2) 
of title 28, United States Code), shall be

[[Page 138 STAT. 136]]

retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That to the extent 
that fees deposited into the Fund as discretionary offsetting 
collections in fiscal year 2024, net of amounts necessary to pay refunds 
due depositors, exceed $245,000,000, those excess amounts shall be 
available in future fiscal years only to the extent provided in advance 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  That 
the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced (1) 
as such fees are received during fiscal year 2024, net of amounts 
necessary to pay refunds due depositors, (estimated at $230,000,000) and 
(2) to the extent that any remaining general fund appropriations can be 
derived from amounts deposited in the Fund as discretionary offsetting 
collections in previous fiscal years that are not otherwise 
appropriated, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $15,000,000.

       salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,504,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private counsel 
expenses, including advances, and for expenses of foreign counsel, 
$270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for protected witness 
safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and maintenance 
of armored and other vehicles for witness security caravans; and not to 
exceed $35,000,000 is for the purchase, installation, maintenance, and 
upgrade of secure telecommunications equipment and a secure automated 
information network to store and retrieve the identities and locations 
of protected witnesses:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading may not be transferred pursuant to section 205 of this Act.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$24,000,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General 
that emergent circumstances require additional funding for conflict 
resolution and violence prevention activities of the Community Relations 
Service, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community 
Relations Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal 
year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

[[Page 138 STAT. 137]]

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of 
section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, $20,514,000, to be 
derived from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$1,692,000,000, of which not to exceed $20,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, and not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the amounts made available under this heading, $163,000,000 is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For construction in space that is controlled, occupied, or utilized 
by the United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related 
support, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the 
custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by section 
4013 of title 18, United States Code, $2,100,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the amounts made available 
under this heading, $250,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be considered ``funds 
appropriated for State and local law enforcement assistance'' pursuant 
to section 4013(b) of title 18, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That the United States Marshals Service shall be responsible for 
managing the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.

                       National Security Division

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the National 
Security Division, $128,000,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 for 
information technology systems shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That notwithstanding section 205 of 
this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for the activities of the 
National Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further,

[[Page 138 STAT. 138]]

That any transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as 
a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

              organized crime drug enforcement task forces

    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking organizations, transnational organized crime, and money 
laundering organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-
governmental agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
engaged in the investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in 
transnational organized crime and drug trafficking, $547,000,000, of 
which $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this appropriation.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States, $10,643,713,000, of which not to exceed $216,900,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $279,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, furniture, 
and information technology requirements, related to construction or 
acquisition of buildings, facilities, and sites by purchase, or as 
otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification, and extension of 
federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects; 
and operation and maintenance of secure work environment facilities and 
secure networking capabilities; $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to section 530C of title 28, United 
States Code; and expenses for conducting drug education and training 
programs, including travel and related expenses for participants in such 
programs and the distribution of items of token value that promote the 
goals of such programs, $2,567,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$75,000,000 shall remain available until expended and not to exceed 
$90,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading,

[[Page 138 STAT. 139]]

$328,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 3672 of Public Law 106-310, up to $10,000,000 
may be used to reimburse States, units of local government, Indian 
Tribal Governments, other public entities, and multi-jurisdictional or 
regional consortia thereof for expenses incurred to clean up and safely 
dispose of substances associated with clandestine methamphetamine 
laboratories, conversion and extraction operations, tableting 
operations, or laboratories and processing operations for fentanyl and 
fentanyl-related substances which may present a danger to public health 
or the environment.

           Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, for training of State and local law enforcement agencies 
with or without reimbursement, including training in connection with the 
training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants 
detection; and for provision of laboratory assistance to State and local 
law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $1,625,000,000, 
of which not to exceed $35,650 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for 
the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 
18, United States Code, and not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
herein shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for 
relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 
18, United States Code:  Provided further, That such funds shall be 
available to investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations 
for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of 
title 18, United States Code:  Provided further, That no funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer the 
functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives to other agencies or Departments.

                          Federal Prison System

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical assistance 
and advice on corrections related issues to foreign governments, 
$8,392,588,000:  Provided, That not less than $409,483,000 shall be for 
the programs and activities authorized by the First Step Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-391), of which not less than 2 percent shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Research, 
Evaluation and Statistics'' for the National Institute of Justice to 
carry out evaluations of programs and activities related to the First 
Step Act of 2018:  Provided further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 250a.>>  That the 
Attorney

[[Page 138 STAT. 140]]

General may transfer to the Department of Health and Human Services such 
amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures by that Department 
for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal and correctional 
institutions:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>>  
That the Director of the Federal Prison System, where necessary, may 
enter into contracts with a fiscal agent or fiscal intermediary claims 
processor to determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of 
the Federal Prison System, furnish health services to individuals 
committed to the custody of the Federal Prison System:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $5,400 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended for necessary 
operations:  Provided further, That, of the amounts provided for 
contract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended to make payments in advance for grants, contracts and 
reimbursable agreements, and other expenses:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Donations.>>  That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System may accept donated property and services relating to the 
operation of the prison card program from a not-for-profit entity which 
has operated such program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that 
such not-for-profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the 
Federal Prison System relating to the operation of pre-release services, 
halfway houses, or other custodial facilities:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading for programs and activities 
related to the First Step Act may not be transferred, or otherwise made 
available, to or for administration by the Department of Labor.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites, and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$179,762,000, to remain available until expended, of which $30,000,000 
shall be available only for costs related to construction of new 
facilities:  Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
for work performed under this appropriation.

federal <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its administrative

[[Page 138 STAT. 141]]

expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to be determined 
in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed accounting 
system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
claims, and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or produced, 
including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in connection with 
acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
protection, or disposition of facilities and other property belonging to 
the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women, as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 
U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); title II of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1968 (commonly known as the ``Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968'') 
(Public Law 90-284) (``the Indian Civil Rights Act''); the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) 
(``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end 
the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (34 U.S.C. 11101 
et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the 
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405) (``the 2004 Act''); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the 
Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22) 
(``the 2015 Act''); the Abolish Human Trafficking Act (Public Law 115-
392); and the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022 
(division W of Public Law 117-103) (``the 2022 Act''); and for related 
victims services, $713,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $80,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from amounts available 
for obligation in this Act from the Fund established by section 1402 of 
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), 
notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and merged with the 
amounts otherwise made available under this heading:  Provided, That 
except as otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 5 percent of funds 
made available under this heading may be used for expenses related to 
evaluation, training, and technical assistance:  Provided further, That 
of the amount provided--
            (1) $255,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act, and any 
        applicable increases for the amount of such grants, as 
        authorized by section 5903 of the James M. Inhofe National 
        Defense

[[Page 138 STAT. 142]]

        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability. Grants.>>  That $10,000,000 
        shall be for any such increases under such section 5903, which 
        shall apply to fiscal year 2024 grants funded by amounts 
        provided in this paragraph;
            (2) $50,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
        grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
        stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (3) $2,500,000 is for the National Institute of Justice and 
        the Bureau of Justice Statistics for research, evaluation, and 
        statistics of violence against women and related issues 
        addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence Against 
        Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, Evaluation and 
        Statistics'' for administration by the Office of Justice 
        Programs;
            (4) $17,000,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
        to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
        violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
        assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; and 
        assistance to middle and high school students through education 
        and other services related to such violence, of which $3,500,000 
        is to engage men and youth in preventing domestic violence, 
        dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking:  Provided, That 
        unobligated balances available for the programs authorized by 
        sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the 1994 Act, prior 
        to its amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be available for this 
        program:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Grants.>>  That 10 percent 
        of the total amount available for this grant program shall be 
        available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015 of the 1968 Act:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That the definitions and 
        grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to 
        this program;
            (5) $60,500,000 is for grants to improve the criminal 
        justice response as authorized by part U of title I of the 1968 
        Act, of which up to $4,000,000 is for a homicide reduction 
        initiative; up to $4,000,000 is for a domestic violence 
        lethality reduction initiative; and up to $8,000,000 is for an 
        initiative to promote effective policing and prosecution 
        responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, 
        and stalking, including evaluation of the effectiveness of 
        funded interventions (``Policing and Prosecution Initiative'');
            (6) $78,500,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, as 
        authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $50,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
        abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
        40295 of the 1994 Act;
            (8) $25,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
        against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
        2005 Act, of which $12,500,000 is for grants to Historically 
        Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, 
        and Tribal colleges and universities;
            (9) $55,000,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
            (10) $9,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to end 
        violence against and abuse of women in later life, as authorized 
        by section 40801 of the 1994 Act;
            (11) $22,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
        justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act:

[[Page 138 STAT. 143]]

         Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and section 41002 of 
        the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be 
        available for this program;
            (12) $12,000,000 is for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, as 
        authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
        against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2005 Act:  Provided, That such funds may be transferred to 
        ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs;
            (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
        training and technical assistance on issues relating to sexual 
        assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women;
            (16) $11,000,000 is for programs to assist Tribal 
        Governments in exercising special Tribal criminal jurisdiction, 
        as authorized by section 204 of the Indian Civil Rights Act:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That the grant conditions in 
        section 40002(b) of the 1994 Act shall apply to grants made;
            (17) $1,500,000 is for the purposes authorized under the 
        2015 Act;
            (18) $15,000,000 is for a grant program as authorized by 
        section 41801 of the 1994 Act:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That the definitions and 
        grant conditions in section 109 of the 2022 Act shall apply to 
        this program;
            (19) $11,000,000 is for culturally specific services for 
        victims, as authorized by section 121 of the 2005 Act;
            (20) $3,000,000 is for an initiative to support cross-
        designation of tribal prosecutors as Tribal Special Assistant 
        United States Attorneys:  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  
        That the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
        the 1994 Act shall apply to this initiative;
            (21) $1,000,000 is for an initiative to support victims of 
        domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and 
        stalking, including through the provision of technical 
        assistance, as authorized by section 206 of the 2022 Act:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That the definitions and 
        grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to 
        this initiative;
            (22) $2,000,000 is for a National Deaf Services Line to 
        provide remote services to Deaf victims of domestic violence, 
        dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking: 
        <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Provided, That the definitions and 
        grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to 
        this service line;
            (23) $5,000,000 is for grants for outreach and services to 
        underserved populations, as authorized by section 120 of the 
        2005 Act;
            (24) $4,000,000 is for an initiative to provide financial 
        assistance to victims, including evaluation of the effectiveness 
        of funded projects:  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That 
        the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of the 
        1994 Act shall apply to this initiative;

[[Page 138 STAT. 144]]

            (25) $5,000,000 is for trauma-informed, victim-centered 
        training for law enforcement, and related research and 
        evaluation activities, as authorized by section 41701 of the 
        1994 Act;
            (26) $10,000,000 is for grants to support access to sexual 
        assault nurse examinations, as authorized by section 304 of 
        title III of the 2004 Act:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the grant conditions in 
        section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
            (27) $5,500,000 is for local law enforcement grants for 
        prevention, enforcement, and prosecution of cybercrimes against 
        individuals, as authorized by section 1401 of the 2022 Act, and 
        for a National Resource Center on Cybercrimes Against 
        Individuals, as authorized by section 1402 of the 2022 Act:  
        Provided, That the <<NOTE: Applicability.>> grant conditions in 
        section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall apply to this paragraph.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                   research, evaluation and statistics

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 
Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); 
the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of 
Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21) (``the PROTECT Act''); 
the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act 
of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 
110-199); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam 
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) 
(``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-401); subtitle C of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Prison Rape 
Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79) (``PREA''); the NICS 
Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); the Violence 
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 
114-198); the First Step Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-391); and other 
programs, $65,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which--
            (1) $35,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics programs 
        and other activities as authorized by part C of title I of the 
        1968 Act; and
            (2) $30,000,000 is for research, development, and evaluation 
        programs, and other activities as authorized by part B of title 
        I of the 1968 Act and subtitle C of title II of the 2002 Act, 
        and for activities authorized by or consistent with the First 
        Step Act of 2018, of which $1,500,000 is for research on 
        multidisciplinary teams, and not less than $1,500,000 is for 
        Research and Development in Forensic Science for Criminal 
        Justice Purposes grants.

[[Page 138 STAT. 145]]

               state and local law enforcement assistance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-351) (``the 1968 Act''); the 
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child 
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-164) (``the TVPRA of 2005''); the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
(``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the Victims of 
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) 
(``the Victims of Trafficking Act''); the NICS Improvement Amendments 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); subtitle C of title II of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Prison 
Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79) (``PREA''); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-403); 
the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Mentally Ill 
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement 
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198) 
(``CARA''); the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 
114-324); Kevin and Avonte's Law (division Q of Public Law 115-141) 
(``Kevin and Avonte's Law''); the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act of 2018 
(title III of division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the Keep Young 
Athletes Safe Act''); the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 (title V of 
division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the STOP School Violence Act''); 
the Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of Public Law 115-141); 
the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-185); the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act 
(Public Law 115-271); the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-391); the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate 
Crimes Prevention Act (Public Law 111-84); the Ashanti Alert Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-401); the Missing Persons and Unidentified Remains Act 
of 2019 (Public Law 116-277); the Jabara-Heyer NO HATE Act (34 U.S.C. 
30507); the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022 
(division W of Public Law 117-103) (``the 2022 Act''); and other 
programs, $2,475,061,000, to remain available until expended as 
follows--
            (1) $924,061,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
        Assistance Grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E of 
        title I of the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and the 
        special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g), of title I 
        of the 1968 Act shall not apply for purposes of this Act), of 
        which, notwithstanding such subpart 1--
                    (A) $13,000,000 is for an Officer Robert Wilson III 
                memorial initiative on Preventing Violence Against Law

[[Page 138 STAT. 146]]

                Enforcement and Ensuring Officer Resilience and 
                Survivability (VALOR);
                    (B) $3,000,000 is for the operation, maintenance, 
                and expansion of the National Missing and Unidentified 
                Persons System;
                    (C) $10,000,000 is for a grant program for State and 
                local law enforcement to provide officer training on 
                responding to individuals with mental illness or 
                disabilities, including for purposes described in the 
                Law Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022 
                (Public Law 117-325);
                    (D) $3,000,000 is for a student loan repayment 
                assistance program pursuant to section 952 of Public Law 
                110-315;
                    (E) $15,500,000 is for prison rape prevention and 
                prosecution grants to States and units of local 
                government, and other programs, as authorized by PREA;
                    (F) $3,000,000 is for the Missing Americans Alert 
                Program (title XXIV of the 1994 Act), as amended by 
                Kevin and Avonte's Law;
                    (G) $19,000,000 is for grants authorized under the 
                Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Authorization Act of 
                2018 (Public Law 115-185);
                    (H) $12,000,000 is for the Capital Litigation 
                Improvement Grant Program, as authorized by section 426 
                of Public Law 108-405, and for grants for wrongful 
                conviction review;
                    (I) $3,000,000 is for the program specified in 
                paragraph (1)(I) under the heading ``State and Local Law 
                Enforcement Assistance'' in division B of Public Law 
                117-328;
                    (J) $1,000,000 is for the purposes of the Ashanti 
                Alert Communications Network as authorized under the 
                Ashanti Alert Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-401);
                    (K) $3,500,000 is for a grant program to replicate 
                and support family-based alternative sentencing 
                programs;
                    (L) $1,000,000 is for a grant program to support 
                child advocacy training in post-secondary education;
                    (M) $7,000,000 is for a rural violent crime 
                initiative, including assistance for law enforcement;
                    (N) $5,000,000 is for grants authorized under the 
                Missing Persons and Unidentified Remains Act of 2019 
                (Public Law 116-277);
                    (O) $1,500,000 is for grants to accredited 
                institutions of higher education to support forensic 
                ballistics programs;
                    (P) $3,000,000 is for the purposes authorized under 
                section 1506 of the 2022 Act;
                    (Q) $125,000,000 is for grants for law enforcement 
                activities associated with the presidential nominating 
                conventions in addition to amounts provided for such 
                purposes in section 222 of this Act; and
                    (R) $350,028,000 is for discretionary grants to 
                improve the functioning of the criminal justice system, 
                to prevent or combat juvenile delinquency, and to assist 
                victims of crime (other than compensation), which shall 
                be made available for the OJP--Byrne projects, and in 
                the amounts, specified in the table titled ``Community 
                Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' 
                included for this division in the explanatory statement 
                described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division 
                A of this consolidated

[[Page 138 STAT. 147]]

                Act):  Provided, That such amounts may not be 
                transferred for any other purpose;
            (2) $234,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 241(I)(5) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(I)(5)):  Provided, That no 
        jurisdiction shall request compensation for any cost greater 
        than the actual cost for Federal immigration and other detainees 
        housed in State and local detention facilities;
            (3) $88,000,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
        trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of the Victims 
        of Trafficking Act, by the TVPRA of 2005, or programs authorized 
        under Public Law 113-4;
            (4) $12,000,000 for a grant program to prevent and address 
        economic, high technology, white collar, and Internet crime, 
        including as authorized by section 401 of Public Law 110-403, of 
        which not less than $2,500,000 is for intellectual property 
        enforcement grants including as authorized by section 401, and 
        $2,000,000 is for grants to develop databases on Internet of 
        Things device capabilities and to build and execute training 
        modules for law enforcement;
            (5) $19,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
        authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
            (6) $30,000,000 for the Patrick Leahy Bulletproof Vest 
        Partnership Grant Program, as authorized by section 2501 of 
        title I of the 1968 Act:  Provided, That $1,500,000 shall be 
        transferred directly to the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards for research, 
        testing, and evaluation programs;
            (7) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender Public Website;
            (8) $88,000,000 for grants to States to upgrade criminal and 
        mental health records for the National Instant Criminal 
        Background Check System, of which no less than $25,000,000 shall 
        be for grants made under the authorities of the NICS Improvement 
        Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180) and Fix NICS Act of 
        2018;
            (9) $34,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
        Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (10) $153,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
        activities, of which--
                    (A) $120,000,000 is for the purposes authorized 
                under section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination 
                Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-546) (the Debbie Smith DNA 
                Backlog Grant Program):  Provided, That up to 4 percent 
                of funds made available under this paragraph may be used 
                for the purposes described in the DNA Training and 
                Education for Law Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, 
                and Court Officers program (Public Law 108-405, section 
                303);
                    (B) $15,000,000 for other local, State, and Federal 
                forensic activities;
                    (C) $14,000,000 is for the purposes described in the 
                Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant 
                Program (Public Law 108-405, section 412); and

[[Page 138 STAT. 148]]

                    (D) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam 
                Program grants, including as authorized by section 304 
                of Public Law 108-405;
            (11) $51,500,000 for community-based grant programs to 
        improve the response to sexual assault and apply enhanced 
        approaches and techniques to reduce violent crime, including 
        assistance for investigation and prosecution of related cold 
        cases;
            (12) $14,000,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
        program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
            (13) $50,000,000 for assistance to Indian Tribes;
            (14) $117,000,000 for offender reentry programs and 
        research, as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public 
        Law 110-199) and by the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 
        2018 (Public Law 115-391), without regard to the time 
        limitations specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which not 
        to exceed--
                    (A) $8,000,000 is for a program to improve State, 
                local, and Tribal probation or parole supervision 
                efforts and strategies;
                    (B) $5,000,000 is for children of incarcerated 
                parents demonstration programs to enhance and maintain 
                parental and family relationships for incarcerated 
                parents as a reentry or recidivism reduction strategy;
                    (C) $5,000,000 is for additional replication sites 
                employing the Project HOPE Opportunity Probation with 
                Enforcement model implementing swift and certain 
                sanctions in probation, of which no less than $500,000 
                shall be used for a project that provides training, 
                technical assistance, and best practices; and
                    (D) $10,000,000 is for a grant program for crisis 
                stabilization and community reentry, as authorized by 
                the Crisis Stabilization and Community Reentry Act of 
                2020 (Public Law 116-281):
          Provided, That up to $7,500,000 of funds made available in 
        this paragraph may be used for performance-based awards for Pay 
        for Success projects, of which up to $5,000,000 shall be for Pay 
        for Success programs implementing the Permanent Supportive 
        Housing Model and reentry housing;
            (15) $420,000,000 for comprehensive opioid use reduction 
        activities, including as authorized by CARA, and for the 
        following programs, which shall address opioid, stimulant, and 
        substance use disorders consistent with underlying program 
        authorities, of which--
                    (A) $89,000,000 is for Drug Courts, as authorized by 
                section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (B) $40,000,000 is for mental health courts and 
                adult and juvenile collaboration program grants, as 
                authorized by parts V and HH of title I of the 1968 Act, 
                and the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime 
                Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 
                (Public Law 110-416);
                    (C) $35,000,000 is for grants for Residential 
                Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners, as 
                authorized by part S of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (D) $32,000,000 is for a veterans treatment courts 
                program;

[[Page 138 STAT. 149]]

                    (E) $35,000,000 is for a program to monitor 
                prescription drugs and scheduled listed chemical 
                products; and
                    (F) $189,000,000 is for a comprehensive opioid, 
                stimulant, and substance use disorder program;
            (16) $2,500,000 for a competitive grant program authorized 
        by the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act;
            (17) $82,000,000 for grants to be administered by the Bureau 
        of Justice Assistance for purposes authorized under the STOP 
        School Violence Act;
            (18) $3,000,000 for grants to State and local law 
        enforcement agencies for the expenses associated with the 
        investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses involving 
        civil rights, as authorized by the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil 
        Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-325);
            (19) $17,000,000 for grants to State, local, and Tribal law 
        enforcement agencies to conduct educational outreach and 
        training on hate crimes and to investigate and prosecute hate 
        crimes, as authorized by section 4704 of the Matthew Shepard and 
        James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act (Public Law 111-84);
            (20) $9,000,000 for grants specified in paragraph (20) under 
        the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' in 
        division B of Public Law 117-328;
            (21) $9,000,000 for programs authorized under the Jabara-
        Heyer NO HATE Act (34 U.S.C. 30507);
            (22) $114,000,000 for initiatives to improve police-
        community relations, of which $32,000,000 is for a competitive 
        matching grant program for purchases of body-worn cameras for 
        State, local, and Tribal law enforcement; $32,000,000 is for a 
        justice reinvestment initiative, for activities related to 
        criminal justice reform and recidivism reduction; and 
        $50,000,000 is for a community violence intervention and 
        prevention initiative; and
            (23) $3,000,000 is for emergency law enforcement assistance 
        for events occurring during or after fiscal year 2024, as 
        authorized by section 609M of the Justice Assistance Act of 1984 
        (34 U.S.C. 50101):

  Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds 
made available under this heading to increase the number of law 
enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net 
gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform non-
administrative public sector safety service:  Provided further, That in 
the spending plan submitted pursuant to section 528 of this Act, the 
Office of Justice Programs shall specifically and explicitly identify 
all changes in the administration of competitive grant programs for 
fiscal year 2024, including changes to applicant eligibility, priority 
areas or weightings, and the application review process:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, the 
amount specified in paragraph (1)(Q) is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention

[[Page 138 STAT. 150]]

Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
(``the 2005 Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 
11291 et seq.); the PROTECT Act (Public Law 108-21); the Victims of 
Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the 
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) 
(``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 
(Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the Justice for All 
Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-267); the Juvenile Justice Reform 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-385); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
(chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473) (``the 1984 Act''); the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198); 
and other juvenile justice programs, $375,000,000, to remain available 
until expended as follows--
            (1) $65,000,000 for programs authorized by section 221 of 
        the 1974 Act, and for training and technical assistance to 
        assist small, nonprofit organizations with the Federal grants 
        process:  Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
        paragraph, $500,000 shall be for a competitive demonstration 
        grant program to support emergency planning among State, local, 
        and Tribal juvenile justice residential facilities;
            (2) $104,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (3) $55,000,000 for delinquency prevention, of which, 
        pursuant to sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act--
                    (A) $4,000,000 shall be for grants to prevent 
                trafficking of girls;
                    (B) $16,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth 
                Program;
                    (C) $4,500,000 shall be for competitive grants 
                focusing on girls in the juvenile justice system;
                    (D) $10,500,000 shall be for an initiative relating 
                to youth affected by opioids, stimulants, and substance 
                use disorder; and
                    (E) $9,000,000 shall be for an initiative relating 
                to children exposed to violence;
            (4) $41,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
        Child Abuse Act of 1990;
            (5) $103,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
        programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) 
        of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PROTECT 
        Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not apply 
        for purposes of this Act);
            (6) $4,500,000 for child abuse training programs for 
        judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by section 
        222 of the 1990 Act; and
            (7) $2,500,000 for a program to improve juvenile indigent 
        defense:

  Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be used for 
research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed to benefit the 
programs or activities authorized:  Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of the amounts designated under paragraphs (1) through (3) and 
(6) may be used for training and technical assistance:  Provided 
further, That the two preceding provisos shall not apply to grants and 
projects administered pursuant

[[Page 138 STAT. 151]]

to sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act and to missing and exploited 
children programs.

                     public safety officer benefits

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 1001(a)(4) of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, such 
sums as are necessary (including amounts for administrative costs), to 
remain available until expended; and $34,800,000 for payments authorized 
by section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational assistance authorized 
by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That notwithstanding section 205 of 
this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for such disability and 
education payments, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available appropriations for the 
Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

              community oriented policing services programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against 
Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act of 
2017 (Public Law 115-37); the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness 
Act (Public Law 115-113) (``the LEMHW Act''); the SUPPORT for Patients 
and Communities Act (Public Law 115-271); the Supporting and Treating 
Officers In Crisis Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-32) (``the STOIC Act''); 
and the Law Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022 (Public Law 
117-325), $664,516,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That any balances made available through prior year deobligations shall 
only be available in accordance with section 505 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the amount provided under this heading--
            (1) $256,168,839 is for grants under section 1701 of title I 
        of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381) for the hiring and rehiring of 
        additional career law enforcement officers under part Q of such 
        title notwithstanding subsection (i) of such section:  Provided, 
        That, notwithstanding section 1704(c) of such title (34 U.S.C. 
        10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehiring a career law 
        enforcement officer may not exceed $125,000 unless the Director 
        of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services grants a 
        waiver from this limitation:  Provided further, That of the 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $34,000,000

[[Page 138 STAT. 152]]

        is for improving Tribal law enforcement, including hiring, 
        equipment, training, anti-methamphetamine activities, and anti-
        opioid activities:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
        appropriated under this paragraph, $44,000,000 is for regional 
        information sharing activities, as authorized by part M of title 
        I of the 1968 Act, which shall be transferred to and merged with 
        ``Research, Evaluation, and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs:  Provided further, That of the 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph, no less than 
        $4,000,000 is to support the Tribal Access Program:  Provided 
        further, That of the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, 
        $10,000,000 is for training, peer mentoring, mental health 
        program activities, and other support services as authorized 
        under the LEMHW Act and the STOIC Act:  Provided further, That 
        of the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $7,500,000 is 
        for the collaborative reform model of technical assistance in 
        furtherance of section 1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (34 
        U.S.C. 10381);
            (2) $12,000,000 is for activities authorized by the POLICE 
        Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-199);
            (3) $16,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of precursor 
        chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, and 
        laboratory dump seizures:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Investigations. Drugs and drug abuse.>>  That 
        funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be utilized for 
        investigative purposes to locate or investigate illicit 
        activities, including precursor diversion, laboratories, or 
        methamphetamine traffickers;
            (4) $35,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
        treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids:  Provided, 
        That <<NOTE: Investigations. Drugs and drug abuse.>>  these 
        funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes to locate or 
        investigate illicit activities, including activities related to 
        the distribution of heroin or unlawful distribution of 
        prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and prescription opioid 
        traffickers through statewide collaboration;
            (5) $53,000,000 is for competitive grants to be administered 
        by the Community Oriented Policing Services Office for purposes 
        authorized under the STOP School Violence Act (title V of 
        division S of Public Law 115-141);
            (6) $25,000,000 is for community policing development 
        activities in furtherance of section 1701 of title I of the 1968 
        Act (34 U.S.C. 10381);
            (7) $247,347,161 is for a law enforcement technologies and 
        interoperable communications program, and related law 
        enforcement and public safety equipment, which shall be made 
        available for the COPS Tech projects, and in the amounts, 
        specified in the table titled ``Community Project Funding/
        Congressionally Directed Spending'' included for this division 
        in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
        matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  
        Provided, That such amounts may not be transferred for any other 
        purpose:   Provided further, That grants funded by such amounts 
        shall not be subject to section 1703 of title I of the 1968 Act 
        (34 U.S.C. 10383); and
            (8) $20,000,000 is for activities authorized by the Law 
        Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-
        325).

[[Page 138 STAT. 153]]

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 202. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>   None of the funds appropriated by 
this title shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or in the case of rape or incest:  Provided, That should this 
prohibition be declared unconstitutional by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.

    Sec. 203. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>   None of the funds appropriated under 
this title shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
in any way the performance of, any abortion.

    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: Prisons and prisoners. Abortion.>>   Nothing in 
the preceding section shall remove the obligation of the Director of the 
Bureau of Prisons to provide escort services necessary for a female 
inmate to receive such service outside the Federal facility:  Provided, 
That nothing in this section in any way diminishes the effect of section 
203 intended to address the philosophical beliefs of individual 
employees of the Bureau of Prisons.

    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section:  Provided further, That this section shall not 
apply to the following--
            (1) paragraph 1(R) under the heading ``State and Local Law 
        Enforcement Assistance''; and
            (2) paragraph (7) under the heading ``Community Oriented 
        Policing Services Programs''.

    Sec. 206. <<NOTE: Prisons and prisoners.>>  None of the funds made 
available under this title may be used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons 
or the United States Marshals Service for the purpose of transporting an 
individual who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime under 
State or Federal law and is classified as a maximum or high security 
prisoner, other than to a prison or other facility certified by the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a 
prisoner.

    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: Prisons and prisoners.>>  (a) None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be used by Federal prisons to purchase 
cable television services, or to rent or purchase audiovisual or 
electronic media or equipment used primarily for recreational purposes.

    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, maintenance, or 
purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or equipment for inmate 
training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Certification.>>   None of the funds made 
available under this title shall be obligated or expended for any new or 
enhanced information technology program having total estimated 
development costs in

[[Page 138 STAT. 154]]

excess of $100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the 
investment review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate that the information 
technology program has appropriate program management controls and 
contractor oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is 
compatible with the enterprise architecture of the Department of 
Justice.

    Sec. 209. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   The notification thresholds and 
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to 
deviations from the amounts designated for specific activities in this 
Act and in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), and to any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this title in previous 
years.

    Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a public-private 
competition under the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or 
any successor administrative regulation, directive, or policy for work 
performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 211.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any United 
States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by the 
Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States Attorney 
from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 212.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or authorized 
to be made available) by law, with respect to funds appropriated by this 
title under the headings ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs''--
            (1) up to 2 percent of funds made available to the Office of 
        Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may be used 
        by such Office to provide training and technical assistance; and
            (2) up to 2 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National 
        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to be 
        used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, 
        without regard to the authorizations for such grant or 
        reimbursement programs.

    This section shall not apply to paragraph 1(R) under the heading 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance''.
    Sec. 213. <<NOTE: Determination. Time period. Waiver authority.>>   
Upon request by a grantee for whom the Attorney General has determined 
there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney General may, with respect to 
funds appropriated in this or any other Act making appropriations for 
fiscal years 2021 through 2024 for the following programs, waive the 
following requirements:
            (1) For the adult and juvenile offender State and local 
        reentry demonstration projects under part FF of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 
        10631 et seq.), the requirements under section 2976(g)(1) of 
        such part (34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).

[[Page 138 STAT. 155]]

            (2) For grants to protect inmates and safeguard communities 
        as authorized by section 6 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (34 U.S.C. 30305(c)(3)), the requirements of section 
        6(c)(3) of such Act.

    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a)) shall not apply to amounts 
made available by this or any other Act.
    Sec. 215. <<NOTE: Firearms.>>   None of the funds made available 
under this Act, other than for the national instant criminal background 
check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence 
Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901), may be used by a Federal law 
enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to 
an individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects 
that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law enforcement 
personnel of the United States continuously monitor or control the 
firearm at all times.

    Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department of 
Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 
(105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2024, except up to $12,000,000 may be obligated for 
implementation of a unified Department of Justice financial management 
system.
    (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
transferred to the capital account of the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 
28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 
2024, and any use, obligation, transfer, or allocation of such funds 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act.
    (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated balances 
available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code, 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2024, and any use, 
obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 217.  Discretionary funds that are made available in this Act 
for the Office of Justice Programs may be used to participate in 
Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under such authorities as have 
been enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in appropriations acts 
in prior fiscal years and the current fiscal year.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>>  218.  The Attorney General 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate quarterly reports on the Crime Victims 
Fund, the Working Capital Fund, the Three Percent Fund, and the Asset 
Forfeiture Fund. Such quarterly reports shall contain at least the same 
level of information and detail for each Fund as was provided to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in fiscal year 2023.

    Sec. 219.  <<NOTE: Live tissue. Determination.>> None of the funds 
made available under this Act may be used to conduct, contract for, or 
otherwise support, live tissue training, unless the Attorney General 
issues a written, non-delegable determination that such training is 
medically necessary and cannot be replicated by alternatives.

    Sec. 220.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Justice to target or investigate

[[Page 138 STAT. 156]]

parents who peacefully protest at school board meetings and are not 
suspected of engaging in unlawful activity.
    Sec. 221.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to investigate or prosecute religious institutions on the basis of their 
religious beliefs.
    Sec. 222.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts in the fund 
established by section 9006(a) of title 26, United States Code, 
$25,000,000 shall be paid to the ``Office of Justice Programs--State and 
Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' appropriation, to remain available 
until expended, for an additional amount for grants for law enforcement 
activities associated with the presidential nominating conventions, 
under the same authorities and conditions as amounts made available in 
paragraph (1)(Q) under the heading ``Office of Justice Programs--State 
and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' in this Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2024''.




__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 157]]

TITLE III <<NOTE: Science Appropriations Act, 2024.>> 

                                 SCIENCE

                 Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed 
$2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $7,965,000.

                         National Space Council

    For necessary expenses of the National Space Council, in carrying 
out the purposes of title V of Public Law 100-685 and Executive Order 
No. 13803, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $1,965,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Space 
Council may accept personnel support from Federal agencies, departments, 
and offices, and such Federal agencies, departments, and offices may 
detail staff without reimbursement to the National Space Council for 
purposes provided herein.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                 science

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $7,334,200,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                               aeronautics

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $935,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

[[Page 138 STAT. 158]]

                            space technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space technology research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $1,100,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                               exploration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $7,666,200,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $450,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period. Budget profile.>>  That the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
concurrent with the annual budget submission, a 5-year budget profile 
for an integrated system that includes the Space Launch System, the 
Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle, and associated ground systems that 
will ensure a crewed launch as early as possible.

                            space operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space operations research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support and services; space 
flight, spacecraft control, and communications activities, including 
operations, production, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
planning and design; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$4,220,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

[[Page 138 STAT. 159]]

      science, technology, engineering, and mathematics engagement

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$143,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, of which 
$26,000,000 shall be for the Established Program to Stimulate 
Competitive Research and $58,000,000 shall be for the National Space 
Grant College and Fellowship Program.

                  safety, security and mission services

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, exploration, 
space operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,129,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That if available balances in the 
``Science, Space, and Technology Education Trust Fund'' are not 
sufficient to provide for the grant disbursements required under the 
third and fourth provisos under such heading in the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development-Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1989 (Public Law 100-404) as amended by the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-327), up to $1,000,000 shall be 
available from amounts made available under this heading to make such 
grant disbursements:  Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, $56,673,000 shall be made available for the SSMS 
projects, and in the amounts, specified in the table titled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included for this 
division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided 
further, That the amounts made available for the projects referenced in 
the preceding proviso may not be transferred for any other purpose.

        construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or

[[Page 138 STAT. 160]]

condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
compliance and restoration, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2029:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $250,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided <<NOTE: Contracts. Time period. 51 USC 20145 note.>>  further, 
That proceeds from leases deposited into this account shall be available 
for a period of 5 years to the extent and in amounts as provided in 
annual appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That such proceeds 
referred to in the preceding proviso shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal year 2024 in an amount not to exceed $30,000,000:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Budget request. Estimates. 51 USC 30103 note.>>  That 
each annual budget request shall include an annual estimate of gross 
receipts and collections and proposed use of all funds collected 
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United States Code.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $47,600,000, of which 
$500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2025.

                        administrative provisions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds <<NOTE: 51 USC 20144 note.>>  for any announced prize 
otherwise authorized shall remain available, without fiscal year 
limitation, until a prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.

    Not to exceed 10 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 20 percent by any 
such transfers. Any funds transferred to ``Construction and 
Environmental Compliance and Restoration'' for construction activities 
shall not increase that account by more than 20 percent. Balances so 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred. Any 
transfer pursuant to this provision shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation provided for the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration under previous 
appropriations Acts that remains available for obligation or expenditure 
in fiscal year 2024 may be transferred between such appropriations, but 
no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any transfer 
pursuant to this provision shall retain its original availability and 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation except in compliance with 
the procedures set forth in that section.
    The <<NOTE: Spending plan.>>  spending plan required by this Act 
shall be provided by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
at the theme, program, project, and activity level. The spending plan, 
as well

[[Page 138 STAT. 161]]

as any subsequent change of an amount established in that spending plan 
that meets the notification requirements of section 505 of this Act, 
shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

    Not more than 20 percent or $50,000,000, whichever is less, of the 
amounts made available in the current-year Construction and 
Environmental Compliance and Restoration (CECR) appropriation may be 
applied to CECR projects funded under previous years' CECR 
appropriations. Use of current-year funds under this provision shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Of the amounts made available in this Act under the heading 
``Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Engagement'' (``STEM 
Engagement''), up to $5,000,000 shall be available to jointly fund, with 
an additional amount of up to $1,000,000 each from amounts made 
available in this Act under the headings ``Science'', ``Aeronautics'', 
``Space Technology'', ``Exploration'', and ``Space Operations'', 
projects and activities for engaging students in STEM and increasing 
STEM research capacities of universities, including Minority Serving 
Institutions.
    Not to exceed $32,600,000 made available for the current fiscal year 
in this Act within ``Safety, Security and Mission Services'' may be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration. Balances so transferred shall be available until 
expended only for activities described in section 30102(b)(3) of title 
51, United States Code, as amended by this Act, and shall remain 
available until expended. Any transfer pursuant to this provision shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Funds <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  previously made available in the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31) under the 
heading ``National Aeronautics and Space Administration--Space 
Operations'' that were available for obligation through fiscal year 2018 
are to remain available through fiscal year 2027 for the liquidation of 
valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2017 and 2018.

    Funds <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  previously made available in the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141) under the 
heading ``National Aeronautics and Space Administration--Space 
Operations'' that were available for obligation through fiscal year 2019 
are to remain available through fiscal year 2027 for the liquidation of 
valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2018 and 2019.

                       National Science Foundation

                     research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86-209 
(42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $7,176,500,000, to

[[Page 138 STAT. 162]]

remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That of the 
amounts appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $680,000,000 
shall remain available until expended for polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational 
and science support and logistical and other related activities for the 
United States Antarctic program:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
in the preceding proviso, not less than $109,310,000 shall be for U.S. 
Antarctic Logistical Support:  Provided further, That receipts for 
scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $234,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of the amounts made available under this heading, $234,000,000 is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             stem education

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics, and 
engineering education and human resources programs and activities 
pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 
et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia, $1,172,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                 agency operations and award management

    For agency operations and award management necessary in carrying out 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.); 
services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and 
reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security guard 
services; $448,000,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $8,280 is for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  That contracts may be entered into under 
this heading in fiscal year 2024 for maintenance and operation of 
facilities and for other services to be provided during the next fiscal 
year.

                  office of the national science board

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code)

[[Page 138 STAT. 163]]

involved in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation 
Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et 
seq.), $5,090,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $24,410,000, of which 
$1,300,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2025.

                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Science Foundation in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any 
transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    The <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  Director of the National 
Science Foundation (NSF) shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 30 days in 
advance of any planned divestment through transfer, decommissioning, 
termination, or deconstruction of any NSF-owned facilities or any NSF 
capital assets (including land, structures, and equipment) valued 
greater than $2,500,000.

    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 2024''.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 164]]

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $14,350,000:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to employ any 
individuals under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 
billable days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 
125 billable days:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Donations.>>  That the 
Chair may accept and use any gift or donation to carry out the work of 
the Commission:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
in this paragraph shall be used for any activity or expense that is not 
explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil Rights Commission Act of 
1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a):  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
preceding proviso, $2,000,000 shall be used to separately fund the 
Commission on the Social Status of Black Men and Boys.

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$31,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $455,000,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to make available for official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Workforce proposals. Notifications.>>  That 
the Commission may take no action to implement any workforce 
repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization until such time as the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate have been notified of such proposals, in accordance with the 
reprogramming requirements of section 505 of this Act:  
Provided <<NOTE: Donations.>>  further, That the Chair may accept and 
use any gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.

[[Page 138 STAT. 165]]

                     International Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 
for official reception and representation expenses, $122,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

                payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $560,000,000, of 
which $516,100,000 is for basic field programs and required independent 
audits; $5,700,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, of which such 
amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct additional audits of 
recipients; $26,200,000 is for management and grants oversight; 
$5,000,000 is for client self-help and information technology; 
$5,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and $2,000,000 is for loan 
repayment assistance:  Provided, That the Legal Services Corporation may 
continue to provide locality pay to officers and employees at a rate no 
greater than that provided by the Federal Government to Washington, DC-
based employees as authorized by section 5304 of title 5, United States 
Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corporation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)):  Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  
That the authorities provided in section 205 of this Act shall be 
applicable to the Legal Services Corporation:  Provided further, That, 
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2023 and 2024, respectively:  Provided, That for the purposes of 
applications of such sections 501 and 502, any requirement relating to 
the proportion of attorneys serving on the governing body of an entity 
providing legal assistance shall be deemed to be satisfied if at least 
33 percent of such governing body is composed of attorneys otherwise 
meeting the criteria established by section 1007(c) of the Legal 
Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996f(c)), and section 502(2)(b)(ii) 
of Public Law 104-134 shall not apply.

[[Page 138 STAT. 166]]

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 
et seq.), $4,500,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $59,000,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the total amount 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $124,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      trade enforcement trust fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities of the United States Trade Representative authorized 
by section 611 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived 
from the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to subsection (d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act.

                         State Justice Institute

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) 
$7,640,000, of which $500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2025:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That, 
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the State Justice Institute 
shall be considered an agency of the United States Government.


__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 167]]

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 501. <<NOTE: Propaganda.>>   No part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes 
not authorized by the Congress.

    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   The expenditure of any 
appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
matter of public record and available for public inspection, except 
where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505. <<NOTE: Contracts. Notification. Time period.>>   None of 
the funds provided under this Act, or provided under previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2024, or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
activity; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; (3) increases 
funds or personnel by any means for any project or activity for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or 
employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, programs, or activities; 
(6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities presently 
performed by Federal employees; (7) augments existing programs, 
projects, or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for any program, project, or 
activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or (8) results from any 
general savings, including savings from a reduction in personnel, which 
would result in a change in existing programs, projects, or activities 
as approved by Congress; unless the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  506. (a) If it has been finally 
determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally 
affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any 
inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to 
the United States that is not made in the United States, the person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with 
funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, 
and ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 
of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.

    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to authorized 
purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this Act

[[Page 138 STAT. 168]]

shall be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or 
assembled in the United States, its territories or possessions.
    (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  The term ``promotional items'' has the 
meaning given the term in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item 
(1)(f)(3).

    Sec. 507. <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>>  (a) The Departments of 
Commerce and Justice, the National Science Foundation, and the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
quarterly report on the status of balances of appropriations at the 
account level. For unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, 
committed balances the quarterly reports shall separately identify the 
amounts attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.

    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be submitted within 
30 days of the end of each quarter.
    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any aspect of a 
reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a limitation of 
a current accounting system, the department or agency shall fulfill such 
aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such accounting system 
and shall identify and describe in each quarterly report the extent to 
which such aspect is not fulfilled.
    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available to such department or 
agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds between 
appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this section is 
provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in this Act:  
Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That for the Department of Commerce, 
this section shall also apply to actions taken for the care and 
protection of loan collateral or grant property.

    Sec. 509. <<NOTE: Tobacco and tobacco products.>>   None of the 
funds provided by this Act shall be available to promote the sale or 
export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek the reduction or 
removal by any foreign country of restrictions on the marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products, except for restrictions which are not 
applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.

    Sec. <<NOTE: 34 USC 20101 note.>>  510.  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, amounts deposited or available in the Fund established 
by section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 
U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess of $1,353,000,000 shall not 
be available for obligation until the following fiscal year:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act, of the amounts 
available from the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General and 
remain available until expended for oversight and auditing purposes 
associated with this section; and (2) 5 percent shall be available to 
the Office for Victims of Crime for grants, consistent with the 
requirements of the Victims of Crime Act, to Indian Tribes to improve 
services for victims of crime.

[[Page 138 STAT. 169]]

    Sec. 511. <<NOTE: Discrimination.>>   None of the funds made 
available to the Department of Justice in this Act may be used to 
discriminate against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of 
students who participate in programs for which financial assistance is 
provided from those funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of such 
students.

    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 513. <<NOTE: Audits. Reports.>>  (a) The Inspectors General of 
the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, 
and the Legal Services Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant to the 
Inspector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or contracts for which 
funds are appropriated by this Act, and shall submit reports to Congress 
on the progress of such audits, which may include preliminary findings 
and a description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days after 
initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter until any such 
audit is completed.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline. Public information. Web posting.>>  Within 60 
days after the date on which an audit described in subsection (a) by an 
Inspector General is completed, the Secretary, Attorney General, 
Administrator, Director, or President, as appropriate, shall make the 
results of the audit available to the public on the Internet website 
maintained by the Department, Administration, Foundation, or 
Corporation, respectively. <<NOTE: Confidential information.>>  The 
results shall be made available in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Privacy.>>  sensitive personal information for 
        any individual, the public access to which could be used to 
        commit identity theft or for other inappropriate or unlawful 
        purposes.

    (c) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Any person awarded a grant or contract 
funded by amounts appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to 
the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, 
Director, or President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds derived 
from the grant or contract will be made available through a subcontract 
or in any other manner to another person who has a financial interest in 
the person awarded the grant or contract.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date. Determination. Applicability.>>  The 
provisions of the preceding subsections of this section shall take 
effect 30 days after the date on which the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Government Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules and 
requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in such 
subsections, consistently apply under the executive branch ethics 
program to all Federal departments, agencies, and entities.

    Sec. 514. <<NOTE: Reviews.>>  (a) None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act may be used by the Departments 
of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation to acquire a high-
impact or moderate-impact information system, as defined for security 
categorization in the National Institute of Standards and Technology's 
(NIST) Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 199, 
``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and 
Information Systems'' unless the agency has--

[[Page 138 STAT. 170]]

            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to inform acquisition decisions 
        for high-impact and moderate-impact information systems within 
        the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Assessments. Cyber threats. Foreign 
        countries.>>  in consultation with the FBI or other appropriate 
        Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk of cyber-
        espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition of such 
        system, including any risk associated with such system being 
        produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities 
        identified by the United States Government as posing a cyber 
        threat, including but not limited to, those that may be owned, 
        directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of China, the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea, or the Russian Federation.

    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless the 
head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) <<NOTE: Mitigation strategy.>>  developed, in 
        consultation with NIST, the FBI, and supply chain risk 
        management experts, a mitigation strategy for any identified 
        risks;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determined, in consultation 
        with NIST and the FBI, that the acquisition of such system is in 
        the national interest of the United States; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  reported that determination to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate and the agency Inspector General.

    Sec. 515. <<NOTE: Torture.>>   None of the funds made available in 
this Act shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture by any official or contract employee of the United States 
Government.

    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the text 
of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-Morocco 
        Free Trade Agreement.

    Sec. 517. <<NOTE: National security letter.>>   None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be used to authorize or issue a national 
security letter in contravention of any of the following laws 
authorizing the Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue national 
security letters: The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978; The 
Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair Credit Reporting 
Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREEDOM Act 
of 2015; and the laws amended by these Acts.

    Sec. 518. <<NOTE: Notifications.>>   If at any time during any 
quarter, the program manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the 
Departments of Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation totaling more

[[Page 138 STAT. 171]]

than $75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe that the total program 
cost has increased by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall 
immediately inform the respective Secretary, Administrator, or 
Director. <<NOTE: Deadline. Determination. Statement. Cost estimate.>>  
The Secretary, Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such 
increase, and shall include in such notice: the date on which such 
determination was made; a statement of the reasons for such increases; 
the action taken and proposed to be taken to control future cost growth 
of the project; changes made in the performance or schedule milestones 
and the degree to which such changes have contributed to the increase in 
total program costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total 
project or procurement costs; and a statement validating that the 
project's management structure is adequate to control total project or 
procurement costs.

    Sec. 519.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094) during fiscal year 2024 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants. Taxes. Time periods.>>  520.  None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to enter into a contract in an amount greater than $5,000,000 or to 
award a grant in excess of such amount unless the prospective contractor 
or grantee certifies in writing to the agency awarding the contract or 
grant that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the contractor or 
grantee has filed all Federal tax returns required during the three 
years preceding the certification, has not been convicted of a criminal 
offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 
90 days prior to certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax 
assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the 
assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or offer in 
compromise that has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is 
not in default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous 
administrative or judicial proceeding.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 521. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  (a) Of the unobligated balances 
available to the Department of Commerce, the following funds are hereby 
permanently rescinded, not later than September 30, 2024, from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts--
            (1) ``Economic Development Administration--Economic 
        Development Assistance Programs'', $35,000,000, only from prior 
        year appropriations;
            (2) ``Census Working Capital Fund'', $10,000,000;
            (3) ``National Institute of Standards and Technology--
        Working Capital Fund'', $10,000,000;
            (4) ``Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'', $12,440,000,000, only 
        from amounts appropriated by section 101(e) of the Fiscal 
        Responsibility Act of 2023 (Public Law 118-5); and
            (5) ``Departmental Management--Working Capital Fund'', 
        $10,000,000.

    (b) Of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations 
available to the Department of Justice, the following funds are

[[Page 138 STAT. 172]]

hereby permanently rescinded, not later than September 30, 2024, from 
the following accounts in the specified amounts--
            (1) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation--Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $367,700,000;
            (2) ``Federal Prison System--Buildings and Facilities'', 
        $19,000,000;
            (3) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--Office on 
        Violence Against Women--Violence Against Women Prevention and 
        Prosecution Programs'', $5,000,000;
            (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--Office of 
        Justice Programs'', $120,000,000; and
            (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--Community 
        Oriented Policing Services'', $15,000,000.

    (c) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department of 
Justice, the following funds are hereby permanently rescinded, not later 
than September 30, 2024, from the following accounts in the specified 
amounts--
            (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $131,572,000; and
            (2) ``Legal Activities--Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
        $500,000,000.

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Departments of Commerce and Justice 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report no later than September 1, 2024, 
specifying the amount of each rescission made pursuant to subsections 
(a), (b), and (c).

    (e) The amounts rescinded in subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall not 
be from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency or 
disaster relief requirement pursuant to the concurrent resolution on the 
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (f) The amounts rescinded pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) shall 
not be from--
            (1) amounts provided under subparagraph (Q) of paragraph (1) 
        under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--
        Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law Enforcement 
        Assistance'' in title II of division B of Public Law 117-103 or 
        Public Law 117-328; or
            (2) amounts provided under paragraph (7) under the heading 
        ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--Community Oriented 
        Policing Services--Community Oriented Policing Services 
        Programs'' in title II of division B of Public Law 117-103 or 
        Public Law 117-328.

    Sec. 522.  <<NOTE: Airline travel.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to purchase first class or premium 
airline travel in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-
10.124 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

    Sec. 523.  <<NOTE: Conference attendees.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to send or otherwise pay for the 
attendance of more than 50 employees from a Federal department or 
agency, who are stationed in the United States, at any single conference 
occurring outside the United States unless--
            (1) such conference is a law enforcement training or 
        operational conference for law enforcement personnel and the 
        majority of Federal employees in attendance are law enforcement 
        personnel stationed outside the United States; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination. Notification. Deadline.>>  such 
        conference is a scientific conference and the department or 
        agency head determines that such attendance is in

[[Page 138 STAT. 173]]

        the national interest and notifies the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        within at least 15 days of that determination and the basis for 
        that determination.

    Sec. 524. <<NOTE: Performance plan. Reports.>>   The Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall instruct any department, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States receiving funds appropriated 
under this Act to track undisbursed balances in expired grant accounts 
and include in its annual performance plan and performance and 
accountability reports the following:
            (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
        accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (4) <<NOTE: Time period.>> In the preceding 3 fiscal years, 
        details on the total number of expired grant accounts with 
        undisbursed balances (on the first day of each fiscal year) for 
        the department, agency, or instrumentality and the total 
        finances that have not been obligated to a specific project 
        remaining in the accounts.

    Sec. 525. <<NOTE: Light bulbs.>>  To the extent practicable, funds 
made available in this Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that 
are ``Energy Star'' qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management 
Program'' designation.

    Sec. 526. <<NOTE: China.>>  (a) None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA), the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP), or the National Space Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, 
promulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or 
contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or coordinate 
bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-owned company unless 
such activities are specifically authorized by a law enacted after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors at facilities 
belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (c) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  The limitations described in 
subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to activities which NASA, OSTP, 
or NSC, after consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
have certified--
            (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of technology, 
        data, or other information with national security or economic 
        security implications to China or a Chinese-owned company; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  will not involve knowing 
        interactions with officials who have been determined by the 
        United States to have direct involvement with violations of 
        human rights.

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Any certification made under subsection (c) 
shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
no later than 30 days prior to the activity in question and shall 
include a description of the purpose of the activity, its agenda, its 
major participants, and its location and timing.

[[Page 138 STAT. 174]]

    Sec. 527. <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, 
adjudication, or other law enforcement- or victim assistance-related 
activity.
    Sec. 528.  <<NOTE: Spending plans. Deadline.>>  The Departments of 
Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
the National Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the International Trade 
Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal 
Commission, the Offices of Science and Technology Policy and the United 
States Trade Representative, the National Space Council, and the State 
Justice Institute shall submit spending plans, signed by the respective 
department or agency head, to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 529. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor 
performance that has been judged to be below satisfactory performance or 
for performance that does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.

    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp 
Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) by the 
Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement Administration.
    Sec. 531. <<NOTE: State listing. District of 
Columbia. Territories. Medical marijuana.>>  None of the funds made 
available under this Act to the Department of Justice may be used, with 
respect to any of the States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, 
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, 
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, 
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, 
Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, 
North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South 
Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, 
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, or with respect to 
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, or Puerto Rico, to 
prevent any of them from implementing their own laws that authorize the 
use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana.

    Sec. 532. <<NOTE: Reports. China.>>  The Department of Commerce, the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National Science 
Foundation shall provide a quarterly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on any 
official travel to China by any employee of such Department or agency, 
including the purpose of such travel.

    Sec. 533.  Of the amounts made available by this Act, not less than 
10 percent of each total amount provided, respectively, for Public Works 
grants authorized by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 
1965 and grants authorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980

[[Page 138 STAT. 175]]

(15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allocated for assistance in persistent poverty 
counties:  Provided, <<NOTE: Definition.>>  That for purposes of this 
section, the term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county that 
has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the 
past 30 years, as measured by the 1993 Small Area Income and Poverty 
Estimates, the 2000 decennial census, and the most recent Small Area 
Income and Poverty Estimates, or any Territory or possession of the 
United States.

    Sec. 534. <<NOTE: Exports and imports. Canada. Firearms.>> (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act or any other Act 
may be expended or obligated by a department, agency, or instrumentality 
of the United States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate an 
officer or employee of the United States in connection with requiring an 
export license for the export to Canada of components, parts, 
accessories or attachments for firearms listed in Category I, section 
121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations (International 
Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 
1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) of this 
section are met by the exporting party for such articles.

    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
        Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
        from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
        States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
        enumerated in subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components and 
                parts for such firearms, other than for end use by the 
                Federal Government, or a Provincial or Municipal 
                Government of Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or 
                complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to another 
                foreign destination.

    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors of 
Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or temporary export 
without a license of any unclassified articles specified in subsection 
(a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return to the United States, or 
temporary import of Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in the 
United States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) <<NOTE: President. Determination. Federal Register, 
publication.>> The President may require export licenses under this 
section on a temporary basis if the President determines, upon 
publication first in the Federal Register, that the Government of Canada 
has implemented or maintained inadequate import controls for the 
articles specified in subsection (a), such that a significant diversion 
of such articles has and continues to take place for use in 
international terrorism or in the escalation of a conflict in another 
nation. The President <<NOTE: Termination.>> shall terminate the 
requirements of a license when reasons for the temporary requirements 
have ceased.

    Sec. 535. <<NOTE: Firearms. Ammunition.>>   Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, no department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other 
Act shall

[[Page 138 STAT. 176]]

obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay administrative expenses 
or the compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to 
deny any application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and 
qualified pursuant to 27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to 
import United States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or 
ammunition.

    Sec. 536. <<NOTE: Exports and imports. Firearms.>>   None of the 
funds made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries or 
expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to act on, an application for the 
importation of any model of shotgun if--
            (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
        proposed importation are met; and
            (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
        shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
        Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that the 
        shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily adaptable 
        to sporting purposes.

    Sec. 537.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.
    Sec. 538. <<NOTE: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Detainees.>>   None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other Act 
may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release 
to or within the United States, its territories, or possessions Khalid 
Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Cuba.>>  is or was held on or after June 24, 
        2009, at the United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
        by the Department of Defense.

    Sec. 539. <<NOTE: Detainees. Cuba.>>  (a) None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other Act may be 
used to construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United States, 
its territories, or possessions to house any individual described in 
subsection (c) for the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the 
custody or under the effective control of the Department of Defense.

    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control of 
                the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    Sec. 540. (a) The remaining unobligated balances of funds as of 
September 30, 2024, from amounts made available to ``Office of the 
United States Trade Representative--Salaries and Expenses'' in section 
540(a) of division B of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 
(Public Law 117-328) are hereby rescinded, and an amount of additional 
new budget authority equivalent to the amount rescinded pursuant to this 
subsection is hereby appropriated on September 30, 2024, for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2024,

[[Page 138 STAT. 177]]

to remain available until September 30, 2026, and shall be available for 
the same purposes, in addition to other funds as may be available for 
such purposes, and under the same authorities for which the funds were 
provided in Public Law 116-113, except that all references to ``2023'' 
under such heading in Public Law 116-113 shall be deemed to refer 
instead to ``2026''.
    (b) The remaining unobligated balances of funds as of September 30, 
2024, from amounts made available to ``Office of the United States Trade 
Representative--Trade Enforcement Trust Fund'' in section 540(b) of 
division B of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-
328) are hereby rescinded, and an amount of additional new budget 
authority equivalent to the amount rescinded pursuant to this subsection 
is hereby appropriated on September 30, 2024, for an additional amount 
for fiscal year 2024, to remain available until September 30, 2026, and 
shall be available for the same purposes, in addition to other funds as 
may be available for such purposes, and under the same authorities for 
which the funds were provided in Public Law 116-113, except that the 
reference to ``2023'' under such heading in Public Law 116-113 shall be 
deemed to refer instead to ``2026''.
    (c) The amounts rescinded pursuant to this section that were 
previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and section 
1(e) of H. Res. 1151 (117th Congress), as engrossed in the House of 
Representatives on June 8, 2022, are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (d) Each amount provided by this section is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 541.  Funds made available to the Department of Commerce and 
the Department of Justice in this Act and any remaining unobligated 
balances of funds made available to the Department of Commerce and the 
Department of Justice in prior year Acts, other than amounts designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 or from amounts made available under the 
heading ``Department of Justice--Legal Activities--Fees and Expenses of 
Witnesses'', shall be available to provide payments pursuant to section 
901(i)(2) of title IX of division J of the Further Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020 (22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)(2)):  Provided, That 
payments made pursuant to the matter preceding this proviso may not 
exceed $5,000,000 for the Department of Commerce and $10,000,000 for the 
Department of Justice.
    Sec. 542.  Notwithstanding title II of division J of the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), up to 0.7 
percent of amounts made available to the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration by such Act shall be available for salaries 
and expenses, administration, and oversight of programs administered by 
such Administration that received appropriations by such Act, in 
addition to amounts previously made available for such purpose:  
Provided, That all such amounts shall be available across such programs 
and shall be available for salaries

[[Page 138 STAT. 178]]

and expenses, administration, and oversight of the Connecting Minority 
Communities Pilot Program (as authorized by section 902 of division N of 
Public Law 116-260) and of the Broadband Connectivity Infrastructure 
Program (as authorized by section 905(d) of division N of Public Law 
116-260), regardless of the heading under which such amounts were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That such amounts may be transferred 
between the appropriate accounts to carry out this section, in addition 
to authorities included elsewhere in such Act:  Provided further, That 
this section shall not reduce the total allocation for any State under 
Program Notices of Available Amounts dated June 30, 
2023: <<NOTE: Notifications. Time period.>>  Provided further, That 
amounts transferred pursuant to this section may be obligated only after 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of 
funds:  Provided further, That amounts repurposed or transferred 
pursuant to this section that were previously designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the 
Budget are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to legislation 
establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the House of 
Representatives.

    Sec. 543.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to move the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) 
Canine Training Center or the ATF National Canine Division from Front 
Royal, Virginia, to another location.
    Sec. 544. (a) Section 507(d) of title 11, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``excluding subparagraph (F)'' after ``(a)(8)''.
    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date. 11 USC 507 note.>>  Except as 
provided in paragraph (2), the amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (2) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall not apply with 
respect to cases commenced under title 11 of the United States Code 
before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 545.  Section 107(b)(2)(C) of the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)(C)) is amended by striking 
``total costs of the projects described in the application submitted'' 
and inserting in its place ``total project cost. In general, this 
project match requirement may be satisfied by contributions or 
expenditures committed to improve victim support services that promote 
victim recovery and reintegration into society, provided that these 
contributions and expenditures are consistent with applicable grant 
requirements and approved project scope''.
    Sec. 546. <<NOTE: Deadlines. Allocations.>>  (a)(1)(A) Within 45 
days of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall allocate 
amounts made available from the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce 
Semiconductors (CHIPS) for America Fund for fiscal year 2024 pursuant to 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 102(a) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 
(division A of Public Law 117-167), including the transfer authority in 
such paragraphs of that section of that Act, to the accounts specified, 
in the amounts specified, and for the projects and activities specified, 
in the table titled ``Department of Commerce Allocation of National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Funds: CHIPS Act Fiscal Year 
2024'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this

[[Page 138 STAT. 179]]

consolidated Act), and pursuant to the direction included in the 
classified annex accompanying this Act.

    (B) Not <<NOTE: Allocation.>> later than October 15, 2024, and 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall allocate from the amounts made available from the 
Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) for 
America Fund for fiscal year 2025 pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
section 102(a) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 (division A of Public Law 117-
167), including the transfer authority in such paragraphs of that 
section of that Act, to the account specified, in the amount specified, 
and for the project and activity specified, in the table titled 
``Department of Commerce Allocation of National Institute of Standards 
and Technology Funds: CHIPS Act Fiscal Year 2025'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), and pursuant to the direction included in the 
classified annex accompanying this Act.

    (C) Not <<NOTE: Allocation.>> later than October 15, 2025, and 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall allocate from the amounts made available from the 
Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) for 
America Fund for fiscal year 2026 pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
section 102(a) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 (division A of Public Law 117-
167), including the transfer authority in such paragraphs of that 
section of that Act, to the accounts specified, in the amounts not to 
exceed that specified, and for the projects and activities specified, in 
the table titled ``Department of Commerce Allocation of National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Funds: CHIPS Act Fiscal Year 
2026'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), and pursuant to 
the direction included in the classified annex accompanying this Act.

    (2) Within <<NOTE: Allocation.>>  45 days of enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the National Science Foundation shall allocate amounts 
made available from the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce 
Semiconductors (CHIPS) for America Workforce and Education Fund for 
fiscal year 2024 pursuant to section 102(d)(1) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 
(division A of Public Law 117-167), to the account specified, in the 
amounts specified, and for the projects and activities specified in the 
table titled ``National Science Foundation Allocation of Funds: CHIPS 
Act Fiscal Year 2024'' in the explanatory statement described in section 
4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

    (b) Neither the President nor his designee may allocate any amounts 
that are made available for any fiscal year under section 102(a)(2)(A) 
of the CHIPS Act of 2022 or under section 102(d)(2) of such Act if there 
is in effect an Act making or continuing appropriations for part of a 
fiscal year for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies:  Provided, That in any fiscal year, the matter 
preceding this proviso shall not apply to the allocation, apportionment, 
or allotment of amounts for continuing administration of programs 
allocated funds from the CHIPS for America Fund, which may be allocated 
only in amounts that are no more than the allocation for such purposes 
in subsection (a) of this section.
    (c) <<NOTE: Notification. Reallocations.>>  Subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House

[[Page 138 STAT. 180]]

of Representatives and the Senate, and subject to the terms and 
conditions in section 505 of this Act--
            (1) the Secretary of Commerce may reallocate funds allocated 
        to Industrial Technology Services for section 9906 of Public Law 
        116-283 by subsection (a)(1) of this section; and
            (2) the Director of the National Science Foundation may 
        reallocate funds allocated to the CHIPS for America Workforce 
        and Education Fund by subsection (a)(2) of this section.

    (d) <<NOTE: Proposed allocations.>>  Concurrent with the annual 
budget submission of the President for fiscal year 2025, the Secretary 
of Commerce and the Director of the National Science Foundation, as 
appropriate, shall each submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate proposed allocations by 
account and by program, project, or activity, with detailed 
justifications, for amounts made available under section 102(a)(2) and 
section 102(d)(2) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 for fiscal year 2025.

    (e) <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>> The Department of Commerce and 
the National Science Foundation, as appropriate, shall each provide the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate 
quarterly reports on the status of balances of projects and activities 
funded by the CHIPS for America Fund for amounts allocated pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1) of this section, and section 543(a)(1) of division B 
of Public Law 117-328, the status of balances of projects and activities 
funded by the Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund for amounts 
allocated pursuant to section 543 (a)(2) of division B of Public Law 
117-328, and the status of balances of projects and activities funded by 
the CHIPS for America Workforce and Education Fund for amounts allocated 
pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section and section 543(a)(3) of 
division B of Public Law 117-328, including all uncommitted, committed, 
and unobligated funds.

    This division may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024''.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 181]]

 DIVISION D-- <<NOTE: Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
  Appropriations Act, 2024.>> ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED 
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

                                 TITLE I

                        CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the collection 
and study of basic information pertaining to river and harbor, flood and 
storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, 
and related needs; for surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm damage 
reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem restoration projects, 
and related efforts prior to construction; for restudy of authorized 
projects; and for miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by 
law, surveys and detailed studies, and plans and specifications of 
projects prior to construction, $142,990,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the Secretary shall not deviate from the work 
plan, once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That of 
the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations available under 
this heading, $11,413,000 is rescinded:  Provided further, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                              construction

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the construction of river and harbor, 
flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related projects authorized by law; for conducting 
detailed studies, and plans and specifications, of such projects 
(including those involving participation by States, local governments, 
or private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by law (but 
such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, shall not 
constitute a commitment of the Government to construction); 
$1,854,688,000, to remain available until expended; of which 
$114,775,000, to be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, 
shall be to cover the Federal share of construction

[[Page 138 STAT. 182]]

costs for facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities 
program; and of which such sums as are necessary to cover 35 percent of 
the costs of construction, replacement, rehabilitation, and expansion of 
inland waterways projects shall be derived from the Inland Waterways 
Trust Fund, except as otherwise specifically provided for in law:  
Provided, That of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations available under this heading, $9,678,000 is rescinded:  
Provided further, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that 
were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That of the 
unobligated balances from amounts made available under this heading in 
division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 
117-58) for which spend plan allocations have not been announced as of 
the date of enactment of this Act, $1,434,500,000 shall be used, 
regardless of project purpose and in addition to amounts otherwise made 
available for such purposes, for projects specified in the table titled 
``Corps of Engineers--Construction'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), and, when combined with the amounts made available in 
the matter preceding the first proviso under this heading, shall not in 
total exceed the amount for any project as specified in such table:  
Provided further, That projects receiving funds pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be subject to the terms and conditions of 
division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 
117-58):  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Work plan.>> not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
directly to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
a work plan that includes the amount that each project specified in the 
table titled ``Corps of Engineers--Construction'' in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act) will receive from amounts made available in the 
matter preceding the first proviso under this heading and from amounts 
repurposed pursuant to the third proviso under this heading:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Work plan.>> That the Secretary shall not deviate from 
the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That 
amounts repurposed under this heading that were previously designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget are designated as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to 
legislation establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the 
House of Representatives.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects and 
related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley below Cape 
Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, $368,037,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $6,057,000, to be derived from the 
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, shall be to cover the

[[Page 138 STAT. 183]]

Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for inland 
harbors:  Provided, <<NOTE: Work plan.>> That the Secretary shall not 
deviate from the work plan, once the plan has been submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided 
further, That of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations 
available under this heading, $1,110,000 is rescinded:  Provided 
further, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        operation and maintenance

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of 
existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, aquatic 
ecosystem restoration, and related projects authorized by law; providing 
security for infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, including 
administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor channels 
provided by a State, municipality, or other public agency that serve 
essential navigation needs of general commerce, where authorized by law; 
surveying and charting northern and northwestern lakes and connecting 
waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removing obstructions 
to navigation, $5,552,816,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $2,650,168,000, to be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
Fund, shall be to cover the Federal share of eligible operations and 
maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and for inland 
harbors; of which such sums as become available from the special account 
for the Corps of Engineers established by the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall be derived from that account for 
resource protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance 
activities related to resource protection in the areas at which outdoor 
recreation is available; of which such sums as become available from 
fees collected under section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall be used to 
cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the dredged material 
disposal facilities for which such fees have been collected; and of 
which $58,000,000, to be derived from the general fund of the Treasury, 
shall be to carry out subsection (c) of section 2106 of the Water 
Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2238c) and shall 
be designated as being for such purpose pursuant to paragraph (2) of 
section 14003 of division B of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic 
Security Act (Public Law 116-136):  Provided, That 1 percent of the 
total amount of funds provided for each of the programs, projects, or 
activities funded under this heading shall not be allocated to a field 
operating activity prior to the beginning of the fourth quarter of the 
fiscal year and shall be available for use by the Chief of Engineers to 
fund such emergency activities as the Chief of Engineers determines to 
be necessary and appropriate, and that the Chief of Engineers shall 
allocate during the fourth quarter any remaining funds which have not 
been used for emergency activities proportionally in accordance with the 
amounts provided for the programs, projects, or activities:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Work plan.>> Secretary shall not deviate from 
the work plan,

[[Page 138 STAT. 184]]

once the plan has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That of the unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
$30,000 is rescinded:  Provided further, That no amounts may be 
rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $221,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025.

             formerly utilized sites remedial action program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites in the 
United States resulting from work performed as part of the Nation's 
early atomic energy program, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other 
natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters as authorized by law, 
$35,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                expenses

    For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
administration of the civil works program in the headquarters of the 
Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division Engineers; and for 
costs of management and operation of the Humphreys Engineer Center 
Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, the United States 
Army Engineer Research and Development Center, and the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
program, $216,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, of 
which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation purposes and only during the current fiscal year:  
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation provided in this title 
shall be available to fund the civil works activities of the Office of 
the Chief of Engineers or the civil works executive direction and 
management activities of the division offices:  Provided further, That 
any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies appropriation may be used to 
fund the supervision and general administration of emergency operations, 
repairs, and other activities in response to any flood, hurricane, or 
other natural disaster.

      office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

    For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 7016(b)(3), $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025: <<NOTE: Reports. Work plan.>>   
Provided, That not more than 75 percent of such amount may be obligated 
or expended until

[[Page 138 STAT. 185]]

the Assistant Secretary submits to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the report required under section 101(d) of this 
Act and a work plan that allocates at least 95 percent of the additional 
funding provided under each heading in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), to specific programs, projects, or activities:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>> That not more than 90 
percent of such amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for obligation until the Assistant Secretary provides in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
recommendations for the appropriate level of design during feasibility 
studies, the appropriate level of preconstruction engineering and design 
required before a construction new start, and how cost estimate 
classifications may best be adjusted for changing environments.

       water infrastructure finance and innovation program account

    For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans, 
as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014, $2,200,000, to remain available until expended, for safety 
projects to maintain, upgrade, and repair dams identified in the 
National Inventory of Dams with a primary owner type of state, local 
government, public utility, or private:  Provided, That no project may 
be funded with amounts provided under this heading for a dam that is 
identified as jointly owned in the National Inventory of Dams and where 
one of those joint owners is the Federal Government:  Provided further, 
That amounts made available under this heading in this Act shall also be 
available for projects to construct, maintain, upgrade, and repair 
levees and ancillary features with a primary owner type of state, 
municipal, county, private, or other non-Federal 
entity: <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Provided further, That no project may 
be funded with amounts provided under this heading for a levee unless 
the Secretary has certified in advance, in writing, that the levee is 
not owned, in whole or in part, by the Federal Government:  Provided 
further, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$440,000,000:  Provided further, That the use of direct loans or loan 
guarantee authority under this heading for direct loans or commitments 
to guarantee loans for any project shall be in accordance with the 
criteria published in the Federal Register on June 30, 2020 (85 FR 
39189) pursuant to the fourth proviso under the heading ``Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account'' in division D of 
the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94):  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That none of the direct loans 
or loan guarantee authority made available under this heading shall be 
available for any project unless the Secretary and the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget have certified in advance in writing 
that the direct loan or loan guarantee, as applicable, and the project 
comply with the criteria referenced in the previous proviso:  Provided 
further, That any references to the Environmental

[[Page 138 STAT. 186]]

Protection Agency (EPA) or the Administrator in the criteria referenced 
in the previous two provisos shall be deemed to be references to the 
Army Corps of Engineers or the Secretary of the Army, respectively, for 
purposes of the direct loans or loan guarantee authority made available 
under this heading:  Provided further, That for the purposes of carrying 
out the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office may request, and the Secretary shall 
promptly provide, documentation and information relating to a project 
identified in a Letter of Interest submitted to the Secretary pursuant 
to a Notice of Funding Availability for applications for credit 
assistance under the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act 
Program, including with respect to a project that was initiated or 
completed before the date of enactment of this Act.

    In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to sections 
5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014 shall be deposited in this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025.

              GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in title I of this Act, or 
provided by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities 
funded in title I of this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2024, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that:
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  increases funds or 
        personnel for any program, project, or activity for which funds 
        have been denied or restricted by this Act, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress;
            (4) <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  proposes to use funds 
        directed for a specific activity for a different purpose, unless 
        prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
        of both Houses of Congress;
            (5) <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  augments or reduces 
        existing programs, projects, or activities in excess of the 
        amounts contained in paragraphs (6) through (10), unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress;
            (6) Investigations.--For a base level over $100,000, 
        reprogramming of 25 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $150,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided, 
        That for a base level less than $100,000, the reprogramming 
        limit is $25,000:  Provided further, That up to $25,000 may be 
        reprogrammed into any continuing study or activity that did not 
        receive an appropriation for existing obligations and 
        concomitant administrative expenses;
            (7) Construction.--For a base level over $2,000,000, 
        reprogramming of 15 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $3,000,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided,

[[Page 138 STAT. 187]]

        That for a base level less than $2,000,000, the reprogramming 
        limit is $300,000:  Provided further, That up to $3,000,000 may 
        be reprogrammed for settled contractor claims, changed 
        conditions, or real estate deficiency judgments:  Provided 
        further, That up to $300,000 may be reprogrammed into any 
        continuing study or activity that did not receive an 
        appropriation for existing obligations and concomitant 
        administrative expenses;
            (8) Operation and maintenance.--Unlimited reprogramming 
        authority is granted for the Corps to be able to respond to 
        emergencies:  Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the Chief 
        of Engineers shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress of these emergency actions as soon 
        thereafter as practicable:  Provided further, That for a base 
        level over $1,000,000, reprogramming of 15 percent of the base 
        amount up to a limit of $5,000,000 per project, study, or 
        activity is allowed:  Provided further, That for a base level 
        less than $1,000,000, the reprogramming limit is $150,000:  
        Provided further, That $150,000 may be reprogrammed into any 
        continuing study or activity that did not receive an 
        appropriation;
            (9) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Mississippi river and 
        tributaries.--The reprogramming guidelines in paragraphs (6), 
        (7), and (8) shall apply to the Investigations, Construction, 
        and Operation and Maintenance portions of the Mississippi River 
        and Tributaries Account, respectively; and
            (10) Formerly utilized sites remedial action program.--
        Reprogramming of up to 15 percent of the base of the receiving 
        project is permitted.

    (b) De Minimus Reprogrammings.--In no case should a reprogramming 
for less than $50,000 be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
    (c) Continuing Authorities Program.--Subsection (a)(1) shall not 
apply to any project or activity funded under the continuing authorities 
program.
    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for 
the current fiscal year which shall include:
            (1) A table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
        display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if applicable, 
        and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) A delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by object class and program, project and activity as detailed in 
        the budget appendix for the respective appropriations; and
            (3) An identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: Allocation.>>   The Secretary shall allocate funds 
made available in this Act solely in accordance with the provisions of 
this Act and in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  None of the funds made available in 
this title may be used to award or modify any contract that commits 
funds beyond the amounts appropriated for that program, project, or 
activity that remain unobligated, except that such amounts may include 
any funds that have been made available through reprogramming pursuant 
to section 101.

[[Page 138 STAT. 188]]

    Sec. 104.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the Fish and 
Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service may accept and 
expend, up to $8,200,000 of funds provided in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to mitigate for fisheries lost due 
to Corps of Engineers projects.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for an open 
lake placement alternative for dredged material, after evaluating the 
least costly, environmentally acceptable manner for the disposal or 
management of dredged material originating from Lake Erie or tributaries 
thereto, unless it is approved under a State water quality certification 
pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1341):  Provided, That until an open lake placement alternative 
for dredged material is approved under a State water quality 
certification, the Corps of Engineers shall continue upland placement of 
such dredged material consistent with the requirements of section 101 of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211).
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Kentucky.>>  None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used to carry out any water supply reallocation study 
under the Wolf Creek Dam, Lake Cumberland, Kentucky, project authorized 
under the Act of July 24, 1946 (60 Stat. 636, ch. 595).

    Sec. 107.  Additional funding provided in this Act shall be 
allocated only to projects determined to be eligible by the Chief of 
Engineers.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any prior 
Act may be used to alter the eligibility requirements for assistance 
under section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 (33 U.S.C. 701n) in effect 
on November 14, 2022, without express authorization by Congress.
    Sec. 109. <<NOTE: Spend plan. Allocation.>>  Notwithstanding any 
other requirement, the remaining unobligated balances from amounts made 
available under the heading ``Corps of Engineers--Civil--Construction'' 
in division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 
117-58) for which spend plan allocations have not been announced as of 
the date of enactment of this Act (other than such balances otherwise 
repurposed by the third proviso under such heading in this title) may be 
made available for projects, in addition to amounts otherwise made 
available for such purposes and regardless of project purpose, that have 
previously received funds under the heading ``Construction'' in title IV 
of division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123) 
subject to the terms and conditions of such title IV of division B as 
applicable and as specifically modified by section 111 of this Act, or 
in chapter 4 of title X of the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 
(division A of Public Law 113-2) subject to the terms and conditions of 
such chapter 4 of title X as applicable and as specifically modified by 
section 111 of this Act, and for which non-Federal interests have 
entered into binding agreements with the Secretary as of the date of 
enactment of this Act:  Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to 
this section that were previously designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to legislation 
establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the House of 
Representatives.

[[Page 138 STAT. 189]]

    Sec. 110.  The remaining unobligated balances from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Construction'' in title IV of the Disaster Relief 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022 (division B of Public Law 117-43) 
for which spend plan allocations were announced prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act shall be reallocated to the same project, 
including modifications thereto, and in addition to amounts otherwise 
made available for such purpose, that has previously received funds 
under such heading in title IV of division B of the Bipartisan Budget 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123), subject to the terms and conditions of 
such title IV of division B of Public Law 115-123 as applicable and as 
specifically modified by section 111 of this Act:  Provided, That 
amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 111.  Studies or projects receiving funds under the following 
headings in the following Acts as of the date of enactment of this Act 
are not required to be completed with such funds and may receive funds 
from this Act or future Acts, and any additional funds for such studies 
and projects shall be subject to the same terms and conditions 
applicable to the following headings in the following Acts--
            (1) ``Investigations'' or ``Construction'' in title IV of 
        division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
        123);
            (2) ``Corps of Engineers--Civil--Construction'' in chapter 4 
        of title X of the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 
        (division A of Public Law 113-2); and
            (3) ``Corps of Engineers--Civil--Investigations'' in title 
        III of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act 
        (Public Law 117-58).

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Studies. Contracts.>>  Of the unobligated balances 
from prior year appropriations made available to ``Corps of Engineers--
Civil'', the following funds shall be transferred from the following 
accounts and programs in the specified amounts to ``Corps of Engineers--
Civil--Investigations'' and, in addition to amounts otherwise made 
available for such purposes, shall be used for studies that have 
previously received funds provided under the heading ``Investigations'' 
in title IV of division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public 
Law 115-123) or under such heading in title III of division J of the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58) and for which 
non-Federal interests have entered into feasibility cost sharing 
agreements with the Secretary as of the date of enactment of this Act--
            (1) $371,293.38 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Construction'' in chapter 3 of title I of division B 
        of Public Law 109-148;
            (2) $562,613.89 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' in chapter 3 of title I of 
        division B of Public Law 109-148 that were provided for the 
        Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet channel;
            (3) $38,873.32 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Construction'' in chapter 3 of title II of Public Law 
        109-234 that were provided for the Lake Pontchartrain and 
        Vicinity project, the North Padre Island, Texas project, the

[[Page 138 STAT. 190]]

        Sacramento, California, Area project, and the Hawaii Water 
        Systems Technical Assistance Program;
            (4) $95.55 from the combined unobligated balances under the 
        ``Construction'' headings in chapter 3 of title IV and chapter 3 
        of title V of Public Law 110-28;
            (5) $83,734.13 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Construction'' in chapter 3 of title III of Public Law 
        110-252, including amounts that were provided for the Lake 
        Pontchartrain and Vicinity project, the West Bank and Vicinity 
        project, and the Southeast Louisiana Urban Drainage project;
            (6) $2,122.56 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' in chapter 3 of title III 
        of Public Law 110-252;
            (7) $10.72 from the unobligated balances under the heading 
        ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' in chapter 3 of title III 
        of Public Law 110-252;
            (8) $274,678.03 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Construction'' in chapter 3 of title I of division B 
        of Public Law 110-329 that were provided for the Lake 
        Pontchartrain and Vicinity project, the West Bank and Vicinity 
        project, and the Southeast Louisiana Urban Drainage project;
            (9) $267,434.81 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' in chapter 3 of title I of 
        division B of Public Law 110-329;
            (10) $0.02 from the unobligated balances under the heading 
        ``Operation and Maintenance'' in title IV of Public Law 111-32;
            (11) $246,869.24 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' in chapter 4 of title I of 
        Public Law 111-212; and
            (12) $2,643,142.04 from the unobligated balances under the 
        heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' in title I of Public Law 
        112-77:

  Provided, That studies receiving funding pursuant to this section 
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the heading 
``Investigations'' in title IV of division B of the Bipartisan Budget 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123) or such heading in title III of 
division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 
117-58), as applicable and as specifically modified by section 111 of 
this Act:  Provided further, That amounts repurposed or transferred 
pursuant to this section that were previously designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the 
budget or as being for disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress 
as being an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as 
being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, 
respectively.

[[Page 138 STAT. 191]]

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $23,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $4,650,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation Mitigation 
and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and 
Conservation Commission:  Provided, That of the amount provided under 
this heading, $1,750,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, 
for expenses necessary in carrying out related responsibilities of the 
Secretary of the Interior:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2024, 
of the amount made available to the Commission under this Act or any 
other Act, the Commission may use an amount not to exceed $1,990,000 for 
administrative expenses.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute authorized 
functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                       water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, federally recognized Indian Tribes, 
and others, $1,751,698,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$1,051,000 shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River 
Basin Fund and $7,584,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower 
Colorado River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be 
necessary may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund:  Provided, 
That $500,000 shall be available for transfer into the Aging 
Infrastructure Account established by section 9603(d)(1) of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009, as amended (43 U.S.C. 510b(d)(1)):  
Provided further, That such transfers, except for the transfer 
authorized by the preceding proviso, may be increased or decreased 
within the overall appropriation under this heading:  Provided further, 
That of the total appropriated, the amount for program activities that 
can be financed by the Reclamation Fund, the Water Storage Enhancement 
Receipts account established by section 4011(e) of Public Law 114-322, 
or the Bureau of Reclamation special fee account established by 16 
U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that Fund or account:  Provided 
further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 are available until 
expended for the purposes for which the funds were contributed:  
Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 397a shall be 
credited to this account and are available until expended for the same 
purposes as the

[[Page 138 STAT. 192]]

sums appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $5,500,000 shall be deposited 
in the San Gabriel Basin Restoration Fund established by section 110 of 
title I of division B of appendix D of Public Law 106-554:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
high-priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706:  Provided further, 
That within available funds, $250,000 shall be for grants and financial 
assistance for educational activities:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time 
periods.>>  That in accordance with section 4007 of Public Law 114-322 
and as recommended by the Secretary in a letter dated July 25, 2023, 
funding provided for such purpose in fiscal year 2023 and prior fiscal 
years shall be made available to the Sites Reservoir Project.

  central valley project restoration <<NOTE: Assessment. Contracts.>>  
fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat restoration, 
improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central Valley Project 
Improvement Act, such sums as may be collected in fiscal year 2024 in 
the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund pursuant to sections 
3407(d), 3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 102-575, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the Bureau of Reclamation is 
directed to assess and collect the full amount of the additional 
mitigation and restoration payments authorized by section 3407(d) of 
Public Law 102-575:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading may be used for the acquisition or leasing 
of water for in-stream purposes if the water is already committed to in-
stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent with plans to 
be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, $33,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such amounts as may be necessary to 
carry out such activities may be transferred to appropriate accounts of 
other participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized purposes:  
Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be used for the Federal 
share of the costs of CALFED Program management:  Provided further, That 
CALFED implementation shall be carried out in a balanced manner with 
clear performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                        policy and administration

    For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and related 
functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the six regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, $66,794,000, to be derived from the 
Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377, of 
which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided, That no part of any other 
appropriation in this Act shall be available

[[Page 138 STAT. 193]]

for activities or functions budgeted as policy and administration 
expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase and replacement of not to exceed 30 motor vehicles, which are 
for replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. <<NOTE: Advance approvals.>> (a) None of the funds 
provided in title II of this Act for Water and Related Resources, or 
provided by previous or subsequent appropriations Acts to the agencies 
or entities funded in title II of this Act for Water and Related 
Resources that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2024, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) initiates or creates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act, 
        unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
        Appropriations of both Houses of Congress;
            (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity for 
        which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior approval 
        is received from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
        of Congress;
            (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits, 
        unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
        Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:
                    (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity 
                for which $2,000,000 or more is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year; or
                    (B) $400,000 for any program, project or activity 
                for which less than $2,000,000 is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year;
            (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
        Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
        Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
        project, or activity in the other category, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress; or
            (7) transfers, where necessary to discharge legal 
        obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than $5,000,000 
        to provide adequate funds for settled contractor claims, 
        increased contractor earnings due to accelerated rates of 
        operations, and real estate deficiency judgments, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress.

    (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of funds 
within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation 
category.
    (c) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
``transfer'' means any movement of funds into or out of a program, 
project, or activity.

[[Page 138 STAT. 194]]

    (d) Except as provided in subsections (a) and (b), the amounts made 
available in this title under the heading ``Bureau of Reclamation--Water 
and Related Resources'' shall be expended for the programs, projects, 
and activities specified in the ``Final Bill'' columns in the ``Water 
and Related Resources'' table included under the heading ``Title II--
Department of the Interior'' in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).
    (e) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit 
reports on a quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress detailing all the funds reprogrammed between 
programs, projects, activities, or categories of funding. The first 
quarterly report shall be submitted not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 202. <<NOTE: Determination. California. Plan.>> (a) None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used 
to determine the final point of discharge for the interceptor drain for 
the San Luis Unit until development by the Secretary of the Interior and 
the State of California of a plan, which shall conform to the water 
quality standards of the State of California as approved by the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any 
detrimental effect of the San Luis drainage waters.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir 
Cleanup Program and the costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program 
shall be classified by the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or 
nonreimbursable and collected until fully repaid pursuant to the 
``Cleanup Program--Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' described in the report entitled 
``Repayment Report, Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin 
Valley Drainage Program, February 1995'', prepared by the Department of 
the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by 
the United States relating to, or providing for, drainage service or 
drainage studies for the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by 
San Luis Unit beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to 
Federal reclamation law.

    Sec. 203.  Section 9504(e) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act 
of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 10364(e)) is amended by striking ``$820,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$920,000,000''.
    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (a) Title I of Public Law 108-361 
(the Calfed Bay-Delta Authorization Act) (118 Stat. 1681), as amended by 
section 204 of division D of Public Law 117-103, <<NOTE: 136 Stat. 
4631.>>  shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for ``2022'' each 
place it appears.

    (b) Section 103(f)(4)(A) of Public Law 108-361 (the Calfed Bay-Delta 
Authorization Act) is <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 1696.>>  amended by striking 
``$25,000,000'' and inserting ``$30,000,000''.

    Sec. 205. <<NOTE: Applicability. 136 Stat. 4631.>>  Section 
9106(g)(2) of Public Law 111-11 (Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009) shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for ``2022''.

    Sec. 206. <<NOTE: Applicability. 43 USC 2214 note.>>  (a) Section 
104(c) of the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 
(43 U.S.C. 2214(c)) shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for 
``2022''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 43 USC 2241 note.>>  Section 301 of the 
Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2241) 
shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for ``2022'' and by 
substituting ``$130,000,000'' for ``$120,000,000''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 195]]

    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: Applicability. 42 USC 10363 note.>>  Section 
9503(f) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 
10363(f)) shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for ``2023''.






__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 196]]

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy efficiency and renewable energy activities 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction, or expansion, $3,460,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $223,000,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2025, for program direction.

         Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy sector cybersecurity, energy security, and 
emergency response activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $200,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $28,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2025, for program direction.

                               Electricity

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for electricity activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $280,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $19,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2025, for program direction:  Provided further, That funds under this 
heading allocated for the purposes of section 9 of the Small Business 
Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 638), including for Small Business Innovation 
Research and Small Business Technology Transfer activities, or for the 
purposes of section 1001 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as amended 
(42 U.S.C. 16391(a)), for Technology Commercialization Fund activities, 
may be reprogrammed without being subject to the restrictions in section 
301 of this Act.

                             Grid Deployment

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for grid deployment in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C.

[[Page 138 STAT. 197]]

7191 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $60,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $6,000,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2025, for program direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $1,685,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $90,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2025, for program direction:  Provided further, That for 
the purpose of section 954(a)(6) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as 
amended, the only amount available shall be from the amount specified as 
including that purpose in the ``Final Bill'' column in the ``Department 
of Energy'' table included under the heading ``Title III--Department of 
Energy'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

                   Fossil Energy and Carbon Management

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out fossil 
energy and carbon management research and development activities, under 
the authority of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), including the acquisition of interest, including 
defeasible and equitable interests in any real property or any facility 
or for plant or facility acquisition or expansion, and for conducting 
inquiries, technological investigations and research concerning the 
extraction, processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 
1603), $865,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
of such amount $70,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, 
for program direction.

                             Energy Projects

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out 
community project funding activities, under the authority of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$83,724,000, to remain available until expended, for projects specified 
in the table that appears under the heading ``Congressionally Directed 
Spending for Energy Projects'' in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $13,010,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, unobligated funds remaining from prior

[[Page 138 STAT. 198]]

years shall be available for all naval petroleum and oil shale reserve 
activities.

                       Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve facility development and operations and program management 
activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.), $213,390,000, to remain available until expended.

                          SPR Petroleum Account

    For the acquisition, transportation, and injection of petroleum 
products, and for other necessary expenses pursuant to the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), 
sections 403 and 404 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 
6241, 6239 note), section 32204 of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 note), and section 30204 of the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note), $100,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast Home 
Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management activities 
pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et 
seq.), $7,150,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Energy Information Administration

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities of the Energy Information Administration, $135,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental cleanup activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of 
any real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $342,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That in addition, fees collected pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) of section 6939f of title 42, United States Code, and 
deposited under this heading in fiscal year 2024 pursuant to section 309 
of title III of division C of Public Law 116-94 are appropriated, to 
remain available until expended, for mercury storage costs.

       Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out uranium 
enrichment facility decontamination and decommissioning, remedial 
actions, and other activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, and title X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 
$855,000,000, to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment

[[Page 138 STAT. 199]]

Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until 
expended, of which $0 shall be available in accordance with title X, 
subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                 Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not more than 35 passenger motor vehicles, 
$8,240,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
such amount, $226,831,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, 
for program direction.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for nuclear waste 
disposal activities to carry out the purposes of the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as amended, $12,040,000, to 
remain available until expended, which shall be derived from the Nuclear 
Waste Fund.

                         Technology Transitions

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for carrying out the 
activities of technology transitions, $20,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, $11,500,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2025, for program direction.

                       Clean Energy Demonstrations

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for clean energy demonstrations in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $27,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 
2025, for program direction.

                Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities authorized by section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act 
(Public Law 110-69), $460,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $40,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2025, for program direction.

          Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

    Such sums as are derived from amounts received from borrowers 
pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy Act of

[[Page 138 STAT. 200]]

2005 under this heading in prior Acts, shall be collected in accordance 
with section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided, 
That for necessary administrative expenses of the Title 17 Innovative 
Technology Loan Guarantee Program, as authorized, $70,000,000 is 
appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided 
further, That up to $70,000,000 of fees collected in fiscal year 2024 
pursuant to section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall be 
credited as offsetting collections under this heading and used for 
necessary administrative expenses in this appropriation and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided further, That to the 
extent that fees collected in fiscal year 2024 exceed $70,000,000, those 
excess amounts shall be credited as offsetting collections under this 
heading and available in future fiscal years only to the extent provided 
in advance in appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced (1) as such fees are received during 
fiscal year 2024 (estimated at $70,000,000) and (2) to the extent that 
any remaining general fund appropriations can be derived from fees 
collected in previous fiscal years that are not otherwise appropriated, 
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, That the Department of 
Energy shall not subordinate any loan obligation to other financing in 
violation of section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 or 
subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other debt 
obligations in violation of section 609.8 of title 10, Code of Federal 
Regulations.

         Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
Program, $13,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                  Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Tribal Energy Loan Guarantee Program, $6,300,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025.

                    Indian Energy Policy and Programs

    For necessary expenses for Indian Energy activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101 et seq.), $70,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$14,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, for program 
direction.

                       Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$387,078,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, including 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $30,000, plus

[[Page 138 STAT. 201]]

such additional amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated 
amount of cost of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the 
Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.):  Provided, That such 
increases in cost of work are offset by revenue increases of the same or 
greater amount:  Provided further, That moneys received by the 
Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $100,578,000 in 
fiscal year 2024 may be retained and used for operating expenses within 
this account, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at not more than $286,500,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$86,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $19,108,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$118,056,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, for program 
direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear nonproliferation 
activities, in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $2,581,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                             Naval Reactors

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $1,946,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which,

[[Page 138 STAT. 202]]

$92,800,000 shall be transferred to ``Department of Energy--Energy 
Programs--Nuclear Energy'', for the Advanced Test Reactor:  Provided, 
That of such amount made available under this heading, $61,540,000 shall 
be available until September 30, 2025, for program direction.

                      Federal Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, $500,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, including official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $17,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                      Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $7,285,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$326,893,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, for program 
direction.

     Defense Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for atomic energy defense environmental 
cleanup activities for Department of Energy contributions for uranium 
enrichment decontamination and decommissioning activities, $285,000,000, 
to be deposited into the Defense Environmental Cleanup account, which 
shall be transferred to the ``Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
Decommissioning Fund''.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense activities, 
and classified activities, in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $1,080,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of such amount, $381,593,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2025, for program direction.

                     POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for official

[[Page 138 STAT. 203]]

reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $5,000: 
 Provided, That during fiscal year 2024, no new direct loan obligations 
may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southeastern power area, $8,449,000, including official reception 
and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 
and section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944, up to $8,449,000 
collected by the Southeastern Power Administration from the sale of 
power and related services shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southeastern 
Power Administration:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reduction.>> the 
sum herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as 
collections are received during the fiscal year so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2024 appropriation estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $71,850,000 
collected by the Southeastern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood 
Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses 
shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain 
available until expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power 
and wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That 
for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures 
that are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For <<NOTE: Applicability.>> expenses necessary for operation and 
maintenance of power transmission facilities and for marketing electric 
power and energy, for construction and acquisition of transmission 
lines, substations and appurtenant facilities, and for administrative 
expenses, including official reception and representation expenses in an 
amount not to exceed $1,500 in carrying out section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern 
Power Administration, $52,326,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), up to $40,886,000 collected by the 
Southwestern Power Administration from the sale of power and related 
services shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole purpose of 
funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern Power Administration:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reduction.>> the sum herein appropriated 
for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during 
the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2024 
appropriation estimated at not more than $11,440,000:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $80,000,000 collected by the 
Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act

[[Page 138 STAT. 204]]

of 1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available 
until expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and 
wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, $313,289,000, including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended, of which $313,289,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the Interior Department 
Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), up to $213,417,000 collected 
by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the sole 
purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  the sum 
herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections 
are received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2024 appropriation estimated at not more than $99,872,000, of which 
$99,872,000 is derived from the Reclamation Fund:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $475,000,000 collected by the 
Western Area Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 
1944 and the Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power 
and wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of 
making purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That for purposes of this appropriation, 
annual expenses means expenditures that are generally recovered in the 
same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase power and wheeling 
expenses).

            Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $3,425,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 (68 
Stat. 255):  Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that Act 
and of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $3,197,000 collected by the Western Area 
Power Administration from the sale of power and related services from 
the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until expended 
for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the hydroelectric 
facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area Power 
Administration activities:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That 
the sum herein

[[Page 138 STAT. 205]]

appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2024 appropriation estimated at not more than $228,000:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Definition.>>  for purposes of this appropriation, 
annual expenses means expenditures that are generally recovered in the 
same year that they are incurred:  Provided further, That for fiscal 
year 2024, the Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration 
may accept up to $1,872,000 in funds contributed by United States power 
customers of the Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit into the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund, and such funds shall be 
available for the purpose for which contributed in like manner as if 
said sums had been specifically appropriated for such purpose:  Provided 
further, That any such funds shall be available without further 
appropriation and without fiscal year limitation for use by the 
Commissioner of the United States Section of the International Boundary 
and Water Commission for the sole purpose of operating, maintaining, 
repairing, rehabilitating, replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric 
facilities at these Dams in accordance with agreements reached between 
the Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, official reception and representation expenses not to exceed 
$3,000, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $520,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: 42 USC 7171 note.>>  any other provision of law, 
not to exceed $520,000,000 of revenues from fees and annual charges, and 
other services and collections in fiscal year 2024 shall be retained and 
used for expenses necessary in this account, and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction. 42 USC 7171 
note.>> That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced as revenues are received during fiscal year 2024 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made available 
by this title for the Department of Energy shall be used to initiate or 
resume any program, project, or activity or to prepare or initiate 
Requests For Proposals or similar arrangements (including Requests for 
Quotations, Requests for Information, and Funding Opportunity 
Announcements) for a program, project, or activity if the program, 
project, or activity has not been funded by Congress.
    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  Unless the Secretary of 
Energy notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 3 full business days in advance, none of the funds 
made available in this title may be used to--

[[Page 138 STAT. 206]]

            (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (B) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  make a discretionary contract 
        award or Other Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or 
        more, including a contract covered by the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation;
            (C) provide nonoperational funding through a competition 
        restricted only to Department of Energy National Laboratories 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (D) provide nonoperational funding directly to a Department 
        of Energy National Laboratory totaling $25,000,000 or more;
            (E) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
        or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A), (B), 
        (C), or (D); or
            (F) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
        award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A), 
        (B), (C), or (D).

    (2) <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>> The Secretary of Energy shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
within 15 days of the conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each 
grant allocation or discretionary grant award totaling less than 
$1,000,000 provided during the previous quarter.

    (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the report 
required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient of the award, the 
amount of the award, the fiscal year for which the funds for the award 
were appropriated, the account and program, project, or activity from 
which the funds are being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief 
description of the activity for which the award is made.
    (c) <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants.>>  The Department of Energy may not, 
with respect to any program, project, or activity that uses budget 
authority made available in this title under the heading ``Department of 
Energy--Energy Programs'', enter into a multiyear contract, award a 
multiyear grant, or enter into a multiyear cooperative agreement 
unless--
            (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
        for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time of 
        award; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> the contract, 
        grant, or cooperative agreement includes a clause conditioning 
        the Federal Government's obligation on the availability of 
        future year budget authority and the Secretary notifies the 
        Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 
        3 days in advance.

    (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), the amounts 
made available by this title shall be expended as authorized by law for 
the programs, projects, and activities specified in the ``Final Bill'' 
column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under the heading 
``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act).
    (e) <<NOTE: Notification. Advance approval. Time period.>>  The 
amounts made available by this title may be reprogrammed for any 
program, project, or activity, and the Department shall notify, and 
obtain the prior approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed 
reprogramming that would cause any program, project, or activity funding 
level to increase or decrease by more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, during the time period covered by this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 207]]

    (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act; or
            (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act.

    (g)(1) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>> The Secretary of Energy may waive 
any requirement or restriction in this section that applies to the use 
of funds made available for the Department of Energy if compliance with 
such requirement or restriction would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.

    (2) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Secretary of Energy shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later 
than 3 days after the date of the activity to which a requirement or 
restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice shall include an 
explanation of the substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted 
such waiver.

    (h) The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for 
activities in this Act may be available to the same appropriation 
accounts for such activities established pursuant to this title. 
Available balances may be merged with funds in the applicable 
established accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund for 
the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 302. <<NOTE: Oversight. Compliance.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this title shall be used for the construction of facilities 
classified as high-hazard nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 
unless independent oversight is conducted by the Office of Enterprise 
Assessments to ensure the project is in compliance with nuclear safety 
requirements.

    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: Cost estimate.>>   None of the funds made 
available in this title may be used to approve critical decision-2 or 
critical decision-3 under Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any 
successive departmental guidance, for construction projects where the 
total project cost exceeds $100,000,000, until a separate independent 
cost estimate has been developed for the project for that critical 
decision.

    Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to support a grant allocation award, discretionary grant award, or 
cooperative agreement that exceeds $100,000,000 in Federal funding 
unless the project is carried out through internal independent project 
management procedures.
    Sec. 305.  No funds shall be transferred directly from ``Department 
of Energy--Power Marketing Administration--Colorado River Basins Power 
Marketing Fund, Western Area Power Administration'' to the general fund 
of the Treasury in the current fiscal year.
    Sec. 306. <<NOTE: Time period. Certification.>>  Only $35,000,000 of 
the amounts made available in this Act under the heading ``Weapons 
Activities'' for W80-4 Alteration-SLCM, as specified in the ``Final 
Bill'' column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under the 
heading ``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act), shall be available for obligation until 15 days after 
the date on which the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security

[[Page 138 STAT. 208]]

Administration certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress that the Administrator is in compliance with 
the requirements of subsection (c) and subsection (d) of section 1642 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 
117-263).

    Sec. 307. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> (a) Of the unobligated balances of 
amounts made available to the Department of Energy under each heading in 
title III of division J of Public Law 117-58, an amount equal to the 
amount transferred from each such heading as of September 30, 2023, 
pursuant to section 303 of Public Law 117-58 shall be transferred not 
later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this Act to the Office 
of the Inspector General of the Department of Energy to oversee the 
funds made available to the Department of Energy in Public Law 117-58:  
Provided, That any amounts so transferred that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the Budget are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, 
and to legislation establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in 
the House of Representatives.

    (b) As of the date of enactment of this Act, of the amounts made 
available to the Department of Energy under each of sections 50121, 
50141, 50142, 50143, 50144, 50145, 50151, 50152, 50153, and 50161 of 
Public Law 117-169, two-tenths of one percent of such amounts shall be 
transferred to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Energy to oversee the funds made available to the Department of Energy 
in Public Law 117-169:  Provided, That amounts so transferred shall be 
derived from the unobligated balances of amounts under each such 
section.
    (c) <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1380.>> Section 303 of Public Law 117-58 is 
amended by striking ``through 2026'' and inserting ``and 2023, and two-
tenths of such amounts made available in each of fiscal years 2024 
through 2026'':  Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to the 
amendments made by this subsection that were previously designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the Budget are designated as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to 
legislation establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the 
House of Representatives.

    Sec. 308. <<NOTE: 42 USC 6241 note.>>  (a) Notwithstanding sections 
161 and 167 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241, 
6247), the Secretary of Energy shall draw down and sell one million 
barrels of refined petroleum product from the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve during fiscal year 2024.

    (b) All proceeds from such sale shall be deposited into the general 
fund of the Treasury during fiscal year 2024.
    (c) <<NOTE: Closing.>>  Upon the completion of such sale, the 
Secretary shall carry out the closure of the Northeast Gasoline Supply 
Reserve.

    (d)(1) The Secretary of Energy may not establish any new regional 
petroleum product reserve unless funding for the proposed regional 
petroleum product reserve is explicitly requested in advance in an 
annual budget submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, and approved by the Congress in an 
appropriations Act.
    (2) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  The budget request or notification 
shall include--

[[Page 138 STAT. 209]]

            (A) the justification for the new reserve;
            (B) <<NOTE: Cost estimate.>> a cost estimate for the 
        establishment, operation, and maintenance of the reserve, 
        including funding sources;
            (C) a detailed plan for operation of the reserve, including 
        the conditions upon which the products may be released;
            (D) the location of the reserve; and
            (E) <<NOTE: Estimate. Inventory.>> the estimate of the total 
        inventory of the reserve.

    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: Petroleum products. China.>>   None of the funds 
made available by this Act may be used to draw down and sell petroleum 
products from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (1) to any entity that is 
under the ownership, control, or influence of the Chinese Communist 
Party; or (2) except on condition that such petroleum products will not 
be exported to the People's Republic of China.

    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: Requirement.>>  (a) None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used by the Secretary of Energy to award 
any grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or loan of $10,000,000 or 
greater to an entity of concern as defined in section 10114 of division 
B of Public Law 117-167.

    (b) The Secretary shall implement the requirements under subsection 
(a) using a risk-based approach and analytical tools to aggregate, link, 
analyze, and maintain information reported by an entity seeking or 
receiving such funds made available by this Act.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with the obligations of the United States under 
applicable international agreements.

    (d) The Secretary shall have the authority to require the submission 
to the agency, by an entity seeking or receiving such funds made 
available by this Act, documentation necessary to implement the 
requirements under subsection (a).
    (e) Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as 
the ``Paperwork Reduction Act''), shall not apply to the implementation 
of the requirements under this section.
    (f) <<NOTE: Coordination.>>  The Secretary and other Federal 
agencies shall coordinate to share relevant information necessary to 
implement the requirements under subsection (a).

    Sec. 311. (a) Of the unobligated amounts available under the heading 
``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Nuclear Energy'' in division J 
of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58) for 
fiscal years 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026 the following shall be 
available, in addition to amounts otherwise made available for these 
purposes:
            (1)(A) $500,000,000 for not more than two competitive awards 
        for commercial utility deployment projects for a grid scale 
        Generation 3+ small modular reactor design pursuant to section 
        959A of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, of which $200,000,000 
        shall be available in fiscal year 2024 and $300,000,000 shall be 
        available in fiscal year 2025; and
            (B) up to $300,000,000 for the not more than two awards made 
        under subparagraph (A) shall be available in fiscal year 2026.
            (2) $100,000,000 for one or more competitive awards to 
        support design, licensing, supplier development, and site 
        preparation of a grid-scale Generation 3+ reactor design under 
        the Advanced Small Modular Reactor RD&D program.
            (3)(A) $50,000,000 for university and college-based nuclear 
        reactor safety training as authorized by law, including section

[[Page 138 STAT. 210]]

        31 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, section 4 of the Nuclear 
        Safety, Research, Demonstration, and Development Act of 1980, 
        and section 10745 of the Research and Development, Competition, 
        and Innovation Act (division B of Public Law 117-167); and
            (B) up to $50,000,000 for the training under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be available in fiscal year 2025.

    (b)  Provided further, That amounts repurposed pursuant to this 
section that were previously designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the Budget are 
designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of 
S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2022, and to legislation establishing fiscal year 
2024 budget enforcement in the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 312. <<NOTE: 42 USC 16281 note.>> (a) Of the unobligated 
balances from amounts previously appropriated under the heading 
``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--Nuclear Energy'' in division J 
of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58) that 
were made available for fiscal years 2022, 2023, and 2024, up to 
$2,720,000,000 shall be available, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available, for necessary expenses to carry out the Nuclear Fuel Security 
Act of 2023 (section 3131 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31)):  Provided, That if insufficient 
unobligated balances are available from such fiscal year 2022, 2023, and 
2024 amounts to fund a total amount for such purpose of up to 
$2,720,000,000, then up to $800,000,000 from amounts previously 
appropriated under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs--
Nuclear Energy'' in division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
Act (Public Law 117-58) that are made available for fiscal year 2025 may 
be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise available, for such 
purpose to meet such total amount:  Provided further, That amounts 
repurposed pursuant to this section may be transferred to ``Department 
of Energy--Energy Programs--American Energy Independence Fund'' in 
either fiscal year 2024 or fiscal year 2025:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary <<NOTE: Contracts.>> of Energy may use the amounts repurposed, 
transferred, or otherwise made available pursuant to this section to 
enter into and perform such contracts, leases, cooperative agreements, 
or other similar transactions with public agencies and private 
organizations and persons, as authorized by section 646(a) of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7256(a)), for such 
periods of time and subject to such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary deems appropriate, without regard to section 161(u) of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201(u)):  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, receipts from the sale or transfer of 
LEU and HALEU or from any other transaction in connection with the 
amounts repurposed, transferred, or otherwise made available pursuant to 
this section shall hereafter be credited to the ``American Energy 
Independence Fund'' as discretionary offsetting collections and shall be 
available, for the same purposes as funds repurposed or transferred 
pursuant to this section, to the extent and in the amounts provided in 
advance in appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Receipts.>> That receipts may hereafter be collected 
from transactions entered into pursuant to section 2001(a)(2)(F)(iii) of 
the Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 16281(a)(2)(F)(iii)) and, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, receipts

[[Page 138 STAT. 211]]

from any transaction entered into pursuant to section 2001(a)(2)(F)(ii) 
and (iii) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 16281(a)(2)(F)(ii) and (iii)) shall 
hereafter be credited to the ``American Energy Independence Fund'' as 
discretionary offsetting collections and shall be available, for the 
same purposes as funds repurposed or transferred pursuant to this 
section, to the extent and in the amounts provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Energy may 
use funds repurposed, transferred, or otherwise made available pursuant 
to this section for a commitment only if the full extent of the 
anticipated costs stemming from that commitment is recorded as an 
obligation at the time that the commitment is made and only to the 
extent that up-front obligation is recorded in full at that time:  
Provided further, That amounts repurposed or transferred pursuant to 
this section that were previously designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the Budget 
are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to legislation 
establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the House of 
Representatives.

    (b) Amounts may not be repurposed or transferred pursuant to this 
section until a law is enacted or administrative action is taken to 
prohibit or limit importation of LEU and HALEU from the Russian 
Federation or by a Russian entity into the United States.
    (c) The Nuclear Fuel Security Act of 2023 (section 3131 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-
31)) is <<NOTE: 42 USC 16282.>>  amended--
            (1) in subsections (f)(1)(B)(i) and (h)(4)(B)(i) to read as 
        follows--
                          ``(i) may not make commitments under this 
                      subsection (including cooperative agreements (used 
                      in accordance with section 6305 of title 31, 
                      United States Code), purchase agreements, 
                      guarantees, leases, service contracts, or any 
                      other type of commitment) for the purchase or 
                      other acquisition of HALEU or LEU unless funds are 
                      specifically provided for those purposes in 
                      advance in appropriations Acts enacted after the 
                      date of enactment of this Act; and''.
            (2) in subjection (j) to read as follows--

    ``(j) Reasonable Compensation.--In carrying out activities under 
this section, the Secretary shall ensure that any LEU and HALEU made 
available by the Secretary under 1 or more of the Programs is subject to 
reasonable compensation, taking into account the fair market value of 
the LEU or HALEU and the purposes of this section.''.
    Sec. 313. <<NOTE: Time period. Determinations.>> (a) Subject to 
subsection (b), none of the funds made available to the Department of 
Energy in this or any other Act, including prior Acts and Acts other 
than appropriations Acts, may be used to pay the salaries and expenses 
of any contractor detailed to a Congressional Committee or Member Office 
or to the Executive Branch for longer than a 24-month period, to perform 
a scope of work, or participate in any matter, with the intent to 
influence decisions or determinations regarding a Department of Energy 
National Laboratory, or participate in any matter that may have

[[Page 138 STAT. 212]]

a direct and predictable effect on the contractor's employer or personal 
financial interest:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Contracts. Effective 
date.>> with respect to contractors detailed to a Congressional 
Committee or Member Office or to the Executive Branch as of the date of 
enactment of this Act, the initial 24-month period described in this 
subsection shall be deemed to have begun on the later of the date on 
which such contractor was detailed or the date that is 12 months before 
the date of enactment of this Act.

    (b) For <<NOTE: Definition.>> the purposes of this section, the term 
``contractor'' is defined to mean any contracted employee of a 
Department of Energy National Laboratory, as defined by section 2 (3) of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).

    Sec. 314. (a) The fifty-first proviso under the heading ``Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy'' in title III of division J of Public 
Law 117-58 is <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1371.>> amended by striking ``three 
percent'' each place it appears and inserting ``five percent''.

    (b) The eighth proviso under the heading ``Cybersecurity, Energy 
Security, and Emergency Response'' in title III of division J of Public 
Law 117-58 is <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1371.>> amended by striking ``three 
percent'' each place it appears and inserting ``five percent''.

    (c) The tenth proviso under the heading ``Electricity'' in title III 
of division J of Public Law 117-58 <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1373.>> is amended 
by striking ``three percent'' each place it appears and inserting ``five 
percent''.

    (d) The twenty-second proviso under the heading ``Fossil Energy and 
Carbon Management'' in title III of division J of Public Law 117-58 
is <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1375.>> amended by striking ``three percent'' each 
place it appears and inserting ``five percent''.

    (e) The twenty-sixth proviso under the heading ``Office of Clean 
Energy Demonstrations'' in title III of division J of Public Law 117-58 
is <<NOTE: 135 Stat. 1379.>> amended by striking ``three percent'' each 
place it appears and inserting ``five percent''.

    (f) Amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the Budget are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, 
and to legislation establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in 
the House of Representatives.


__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 213]]

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended, and for 
expenses necessary for the Federal Co-Chairman and the Alternate on the 
Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the Federal share of the 
administrative expenses of the Commission, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $42,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, of which not to exceed $1,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and to carry 
out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional Authority Act of 
2000, notwithstanding sections 382F(d), 382M, and 382N of said Act, 
$31,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                            Denali Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including the 
purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
as necessary and other expenses, $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) of 
the Denali Commission Act of 1998:  Provided, That notwithstanding the 
limitations contained in section 307(c) of the Denali Commission Act of 
1998, as amended, funds shall be available for construction projects for 
which the Denali Commission is the sole or primary funding source in an 
amount not to exceed 90 percent of total project cost for distressed 
communities, as defined by such section and by section 701 of appendix 
D, title VII, Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and for Indian 
Tribes, as defined by section 5304(e) of title 25, United States Code, 
and in an amount not to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed 
communities:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law regarding payment of a non-Federal share in connection with a 
grant-in-aid program, amounts under this heading shall be available for 
the payment of such a non-Federal share for any project for which the 
Denali Commission is not the sole

[[Page 138 STAT. 214]]

or primary funding source, provided that such project is consistent with 
the purposes of the Commission.

                   Northern Border Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $41,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amounts shall be available for administrative expenses, 
notwithstanding section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code.

                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Southeast Crescent Regional 
Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 
40, United States Code, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  Southwest Border Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Southwest Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Great Lakes Authority

    For expenses necessary for the Great Lakes Authority in carrying out 
activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United States Code, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, $928,317,580, including official representation expenses 
not to exceed $30,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated herein, not more than $10,350,720 may be 
made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the 
Office of the Commission, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  
Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $794,341,580 
in fiscal year 2024 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 2024 so as 
to result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation estimated at not 
more than $133,976,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$15,769,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services,

[[Page 138 STAT. 215]]

and other services and collections estimated at $12,655,000 in fiscal 
year 2024 shall be retained and be available until September 30, 2025, 
for necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reduction.>> the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 2024 so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $3,114,000:  Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, $1,520,000 shall be for Inspector General services 
for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $4,064,000, to be 
derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, to remain available until September 
30, 2025.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    Sec. 401. <<NOTE: Compliance.>>  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
shall comply with the July 5, 2011, version of Chapter VI of its 
Internal Commission Procedures when responding to Congressional requests 
for information, consistent with Department of Justice guidance for all 
Federal agencies.

    Sec. 402. <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> (a) The amounts made 
available by this title for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be 
reprogrammed for any program, project, or activity, and the Commission 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed reprogramming that 
would cause any program funding level to increase or decrease by more 
than $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during the time period 
covered by this Act.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>  The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission may waive the notification requirement in subsection (a) if 
compliance with such requirement would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.

    (2) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress of any waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, 
but not later than 3 days after the date of the activity to which a 
requirement or restriction would otherwise have 
applied. <<NOTE: Reports.>> Such notice shall include an explanation of 
the substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver and 
shall provide a detailed report to the Committees of such waiver and 
changes to funding levels to programs, projects, or activities.

    (c) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (d), the amounts 
made available by this title for ``Nuclear Regulatory Commission--
Salaries and Expenses'' shall be expended as directed in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act).
    (d) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds that increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or 
activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 216]]

    (e) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Commission shall provide a monthly report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, which 
includes the following for each program, project, or activity, including 
any prior year appropriations--
            (1) total budget authority;
            (2) total unobligated balances; and
            (3) total unliquidated obligations.





__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 217]]

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501. <<NOTE: Lobbying.>>  None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act may be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
congressional action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending 
before Congress, other than to communicate to Members of Congress as 
described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

    Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III of this 
Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by or 
transfer authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations Act 
for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act), or any authority whereby a department, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States Government may provide goods or 
services to another department, agency, or instrumentality.
    (b) None of the funds made available for any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government may be transferred to 
accounts funded in title III of this Act, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by or transfer authority provided in this Act or any other 
appropriations Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in 
the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act), or any authority whereby 
a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
may provide goods or services to another department, agency, or 
instrumentality.
    (c) <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>> The head of any relevant 
department or agency funded in this Act utilizing any transfer authority 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress a semiannual report detailing the transfer authorities, except 
for any authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government may provide goods or services to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months 
and in the year-to-date. This report shall include the amounts 
transferred and the purposes for which they were transferred, and shall 
not replace or modify existing notification requirements for each 
authority.

    Sec. 503. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 504. <<NOTE: Russia. China. Time period. Notification.>>  None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to admit any non-US citizen from Russia or China to any nuclear 
weapons production facility, as such term is defined in section 4002 of 
the Atomic Energy Defense Act, other than areas accessible to the 
general public, unless 30 days prior to facility admittance, the 
Department of

[[Page 138 STAT. 218]]

Energy provides notification to the Committees on Appropriations and 
Armed Services of both Houses of Congress.

    This division may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024''.






__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 219]]

   DIVISION E-- <<NOTE: Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024.>> DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, 
ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

                                 TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, in 
the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction of 
the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration of 
the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands pursuant 
to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
$1,294,916,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025; of which 
$55,000,000 for annual maintenance and deferred maintenance programs and 
$141,972,000 for the wild horse and burro program, as authorized by 
Public Law 92-195 (16 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided, <<NOTE: Drilling permits.>> That amounts in the fee 
account of the BLM Permit Processing Improvement Fund may be used for 
any bureau-related expenses associated with the processing of oil and 
gas applications for permits to drill and related use of authorizations: 
 Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, up to $1,000,000 may be made available for the purposes 
described in section 122(e)(1)(A) of division G of Public Law 115-31 (43 
U.S.C. 1748c(e)(1)(A)):  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, not to exceed $15,000 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $150,000 is for projects 
specified for Land Management Priorities in the table titled ``Interior 
and Environment Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/
Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included for this division in 
the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

    In <<NOTE: Reduction.>> addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law 
Administration program operations, including the cost of administering 
the mining claim fee program, to remain available until expended, to be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited to this 
appropriation from mining claim maintenance fees and location fees that 
are hereby authorized for fiscal year 2024, so as to result in a final 
appropriation estimated at not more than $1,294,916,000, and $2,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, from communication site rental fees 
established by the Bureau for the cost of administering communication 
site activities.

                    oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements

[[Page 138 STAT. 220]]

on the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands, on other 
Federal lands in the Oregon and California land-grant counties of 
Oregon, and on adjacent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands or 
interests therein, including existing connecting roads on or adjacent to 
such grant lands; $115,521,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Transfer authority.>> That 25 percent of the aggregate 
of all receipts during the current fiscal year from the revested Oregon 
and California Railroad grant lands is hereby made a charge against the 
Oregon and California land-grant fund and shall be transferred to the 
General Fund in the Treasury in accordance with the second paragraph of 
subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 
2605).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent of 
all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 
of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be collected 
under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under section 28 
of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), to remain available until 
expended: <<NOTE: 43 USC 1735 note.>>   Provided, That notwithstanding 
any provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 
U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant 
to that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary of the Interior to 
improve, protect, or rehabilitate any public lands administered through 
the Bureau of Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a 
resource developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, 
without regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are 
used on the exact lands damaged which led to the action:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: 43 USC 1735 note.>> any such moneys that are in 
excess of amounts needed to repair damage to the exact land for which 
funds were collected may be used to repair other damaged public lands.

[[Page 138 STAT. 221]]

                        miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available 
until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations funded 
under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements, and reimbursable agreements with public and private 
entities, including with States. Appropriations for the Bureau shall be 
available for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities to which the United States has title; up to 
$100,000 for payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for 
information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by 
the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>> That notwithstanding 
Public Law 90-620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the Bureau may, under cooperative 
cost-sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing either 
in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator is 
capable of meeting accepted quality standards:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> projects to be funded pursuant to a 
written commitment by a State government to provide an identified amount 
of money in support of the project may be carried out by the Bureau on a 
reimbursable basis.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                           resource management

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific and economic studies, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources, $1,520,273,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2025, of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $22,000,000 shall be used for implementing subsections (a), (b), 
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1533) (except for processing petitions, developing and issuing 
proposed and final regulations, and taking any other steps to implement 
actions described in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or 
(c)(2)(B)(ii) of such section):  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, $44,920,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, shall be for projects specified for Stewardship 
Priorities in the table titled ``Interior and Environment Incorporation 
of Community

[[Page 138 STAT. 222]]

Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included 
for this division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 
(in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided 
further, That amounts in the preceding proviso may be transferred to the 
appropriate program, project, or activity under this heading and shall 
continue to only be available for the purposes and in such amounts as 
such funds were originally appropriated.

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fish and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$19,280,000, to remain available until expended.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $23,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species 
Conservation Fund.

                      national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

                north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), 
$49,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                 neotropical migratory bird conservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the Rhinoceros and 
Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape 
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), and the Marine Turtle 
Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $20,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Indian tribes under the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and 
Wildlife Coordination Act, for the development and implementation of 
programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including 
species that are not hunted or fished,

[[Page 138 STAT. 223]]

$72,384,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
amount provided herein, $6,100,000 is for a competitive grant program 
for Indian tribes not subject to the remaining provisions of this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That $7,284,000 is for a competitive 
grant program to implement approved plans for States, territories, and 
other jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the 
regional Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to the 
remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> the Secretary shall, after deducting 
$13,384,000 and administrative expenses, apportion the amount provided 
herein in the following manner: (1) to the District of Columbia and to 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than one-
half of 1 percent thereof; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United 
States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands, each a sum equal to not more than one-fourth of 1 percent 
thereof:  Provided further, That the Secretary of the Interior shall 
apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: (1) one-third of 
which is based on the ratio to which the land area of such State bears 
to the total land area of all such States; and (2) two-thirds of which 
is based on the ratio to which the population of such State bears to the 
total population of all such States:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> amounts apportioned under this paragraph 
shall be adjusted equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum 
which is less than 1 percent of the amount available for apportionment 
under this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 percent of such 
amount:  Provided further, That the Federal share of planning grants 
shall not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of such projects and the 
Federal share of implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of 
the total costs of such projects:  Provided further, That the non-
Federal share of such projects may not be derived from Federal grant 
programs:  Provided further, That any amount <<NOTE: Apportionment.>>  
apportioned in 2024 to any State, territory, or other jurisdiction that 
remains unobligated as of September 30, 2025, shall be reapportioned, 
together with funds appropriated in 2026, in the manner provided herein.

                        administrative provisions

    The United <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants.>> States Fish and Wildlife 
Service may carry out the operations of Service programs by direct 
expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable 
agreements with public and private entities. Appropriations and funds 
available to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall be 
available for repair of damage to public roads within and adjacent to 
reservation areas caused by operations of the Service; options for the 
purchase of land at not to exceed one dollar for each option; facilities 
incident to such public recreational uses on conservation areas as are 
consistent with their primary purpose; and the maintenance and 
improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities under the 
jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United States has title, 
and which are used pursuant to law in connection with management, and 
investigation of fish and wildlife resources:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>> notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, 
the Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly produced publications for which 
the cooperators share

[[Page 138 STAT. 224]]

at least one-half the cost of printing either in cash or services and 
the Service determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted 
quality standards:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Donations.>> That the 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, all 
fees collected for non-toxic shot review and approval shall be deposited 
under the heading ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--Resource 
Management'' and shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, to be used for expenses of processing of such non-toxic 
shot type or coating applications and revising regulations as necessary, 
and shall remain available until expended.

                          National Park Service

                  operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service and for the general administration of the National Park Service, 
$2,888,424,000, of which $11,661,000 for planning and interagency 
coordination in support of Everglades restoration and $110,980,000 for 
maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for constructed assets 
and $188,184,000 for cyclic maintenance projects for constructed assets 
and cultural resources and $10,000,000 for uses authorized by section 
101122 of title 54, United States Code shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025, and not to exceed $15,000 may be for official 
reception and representative expenses:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading in this Act are available for the 
purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95-348:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 9 of the 400 Years of African-American History 
Commission Act (36 U.S.C. note prec. 101; Public Law 115-102), 
$3,300,000 of the funds provided under this heading shall be made 
available for the purposes specified by that Act:  Provided further, 
That sections 7(b) and 8 of that Act shall be <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 
101.>> amended by striking ``July 1, 2024'' and inserting ``July 1, 
2025''.

    In addition, for purposes described in section 2404 of Public Law 
116-9, an amount equal to the amount deposited in this fiscal year into 
the National Park Medical Services Fund established pursuant to such 
section of such Act, to remain available until expended, shall be 
derived from such Fund.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, and 
grant administration, not otherwise provided for, $91,233,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, of which $1,640,000 shall be for 
projects specified for Statutory and Contractual Aid in the table titled 
``Interior and Environment Incorporation of Community Project Funding 
Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included for this 
division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

[[Page 138 STAT. 225]]

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the National Historic 
Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States 
Code), $188,666,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund 
and to remain available until September 30, 2025, of which $25,500,000 
shall be for Save America's Treasures grants for preservation of 
nationally significant sites, structures and artifacts as authorized by 
section 7303 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (54 
U.S.C. 3089): <<NOTE: Grants.>>  Provided, That an individual Save 
America's Treasures grant shall be matched by non-Federal funds:  
Provided further, That individual projects shall only be eligible for 
one grant:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Approval.>> That all projects to 
be funded shall be approved by the Secretary of the Interior in 
consultation with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>> of the funds provided 
for the Historic Preservation Fund, $1,250,000 is for competitive grants 
for the survey and nomination of properties to the National Register of 
Historic Places and as National Historic Landmarks associated with 
communities currently under-represented, as determined by the Secretary; 
$24,000,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the sites and stories 
of the African American Civil Rights movement; $5,000,000 is for 
competitive grants to preserve sites related to the struggle of all 
people to achieve equal rights in America; $11,000,000 is for grants to 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities; $12,500,000 is for 
competitive grants for the restoration of historic properties of 
national, State, and local significance listed on or eligible for 
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places, to be made 
without imposing the usage or direct grant restrictions of section 
101(e)(3) (54 U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historic Preservation Act; 
$7,000,000 is for a competitive grant program to honor the 
semiquincentennial anniversary of the United States by restoring and 
preserving sites and structures listed on the National Register of 
Historic Places that commemorate the founding of the nation; and 
$19,766,000 is for projects specified for the Historic Preservation Fund 
in the table titled ``Interior and Environment Incorporation of 
Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed Spending 
Items'' included for this division in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act):  Provided further, That such competitive grants shall 
be made without imposing the matching requirements in section 
302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States Code to States and Indian tribes 
as defined in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian organizations, 
local governments, including Certified Local Governments, and non-profit 
organizations.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of physical 
facilities, and related equipment, and compliance and planning for 
programs and areas administered by the National Park Service, 
$172,255,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for any project initially 
funded in fiscal year 2024 with a future phase indicated in the National 
Park Service 5-Year Line Item Construction Plan, a single procurement 
may be issued which includes the full scope of the project:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That the solicitation and contract shall

[[Page 138 STAT. 226]]

contain the clause availability of funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-18:  
Provided further, That National Park Service Donations, Park Concessions 
Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees may be made available for the cost 
of adjustments and changes within the original scope of effort for 
projects funded by the National Park Service Construction appropriation: 
 Provided further, <<NOTE: Consultation.>> That the Secretary of the 
Interior shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, in 
accordance with current reprogramming thresholds, prior to making any 
charges authorized by this section.

                          centennial challenge

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of section 101701 
of title 54, United States Code, relating to challenge cost share 
agreements, $12,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Centennial Challenge projects and programs:  Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of each project or program shall be 
derived from non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, or 
a pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit.

                        administrative provisions

              (including transfer and rescissions of funds)

    In <<NOTE: Fees.>> addition to other uses set forth in section 
101917(c)(2) of title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to 
a sub-account shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, 
without further appropriation, for use at any unit within the National 
Park System to extinguish or reduce liability for Possessory Interest or 
leasehold surrender interest. Such funds may only be used for this 
purpose to the extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise 
fee receipts over the term of the contract at that unit exceed the 
amount of funds used to extinguish or reduce liability. Franchise fees 
at the benefitting unit shall be credited to the sub-account of the 
originating unit over a period not to exceed the term of a single 
contract at the benefitting unit, in the amount of funds so expended to 
extinguish or reduce liability.

    For the costs of administration of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432), the National Park 
Service may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts which are authorized 
to be disbursed under such section, such retained amounts to remain 
available until expended.
    National Park Service funds may be transferred to the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of Transportation, for 
purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 203. Transfers may include a 
reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available for fiscal 
year 2021 or prior fiscal years under the heading ``National Park 
Service--Construction'', $18,500,000 is permanently rescinded:  
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under the 
heading ``National Park Service--Construction'' in division G of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law

[[Page 138 STAT. 227]]

117-328), $9,000,000 is permanently rescinded from amounts made 
available for equipment replacement under such heading, as specified in 
the explanatory statement described in section 4 of the matter preceding 
division A of such Act.

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(a)(1)) 
and related purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,455,434,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025; of which $95,334,000 shall 
remain available until expended for satellite operations; and of which 
$74,840,000 shall be available until expended for deferred maintenance 
and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in cost:  
Provided, That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem research 
activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private property, 
unless specifically authorized in writing by the property owner:  
Provided further, That no part <<NOTE: 43 USC 50.>> of this 
appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the cost of 
topographic mapping or water resources data collection and 
investigations carried on in cooperation with States and municipalities: 
 Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$5,237,000 shall be for projects specified for Special Initiatives in 
the table titled ``Interior and Environment Incorporation of Community 
Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included 
for this division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 
(in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided 
further, That amounts in the preceding proviso may be transferred to the 
appropriate program, project, or activity under this heading and shall 
continue to only be available for the purposes and in such amounts as 
such funds were originally appropriated:  Provided further, That of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $15,000 may be for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        administrative provisions

    From within the amount appropriated for activities of the United 
States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary shall be available 
for contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging

[[Page 138 STAT. 228]]

stations, observation wells, and seismic equipment; expenses of the 
United States National Committee for Geological Sciences; and payment of 
compensation and expenses of persons employed by the Survey duly 
appointed to represent the United States in the negotiation and 
administration of interstate compacts:  Provided, That activities funded 
by appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the use of 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements (including noncompetitive 
cooperative agreements with tribes) as defined in section 6302 of title 
31, United States Code:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That the 
United States Geological Survey may enter into contracts or cooperative 
agreements directly with individuals or indirectly with institutions or 
nonprofit organizations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the 
temporary or intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
shall be considered employees for the purpose of chapters 57 and 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and 
work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, relating 
to tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal employees for 
any other purposes.

                    Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                         ocean energy management

    For expenses necessary for granting and administering leases, 
easements, rights-of-way, and agreements for use for oil and gas, other 
minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer Continental 
Shelf and approving operations related thereto, as authorized by law; 
for environmental studies, as authorized by law; for implementing other 
laws and to the extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial 
delegation; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements, 
$211,162,000, of which $155,162,000 is to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, and of which $56,000,000 is to remain available 
until expended: <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  Provided, That this total 
appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary of 
the Interior and credited to this appropriation from additions to 
receipts resulting from increases to lease rental rates in effect on 
August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by 
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursuant to the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and 
miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reduction.>> the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced 
as such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$155,162,000:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach 
and marine cleanup activities:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$5,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

              offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations related to 
leases, easements, rights-of-way, and agreements for use for oil and 
gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing

[[Page 138 STAT. 229]]

and implementing laws and regulations as authorized by law and to the 
extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for 
matching grants or cooperative agreements, $167,330,000, of which 
$136,450,000, including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, is to remain available until September 30, 
2025, and of which $30,880,000 is to remain available until expended, 
including $2,880,000 for offshore decommissioning activities:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That this total appropriation shall be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary of the Interior and 
credited to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from 
increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from 
cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of Safety and 
Environmental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous 
administrative activities:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Reduction.>> sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result in 
a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$139,330,000.

    For an additional amount, $38,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and 
credited to this appropriation, which shall be derived from non-
refundable inspection fees collected in fiscal year 2024, as provided in 
this Act:  Provided, That for fiscal year 2024, not less than 50 percent 
of the inspection fees expended by the Bureau of Safety and 
Environmental Enforcement will be used to fund personnel and mission-
related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly development, 
subject to environmental safeguards, of the Outer Continental Shelf 
pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et 
seq.), including the review of applications for permits to drill.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016; title IV, 
sections 4202 and 4303; title VII; and title VIII, section 8201 of the 
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $15,099,000, which shall be derived from the 
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                        regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
$116,186,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, of which 
$62,400,000 shall be available for State and tribal regulatory grants, 
and of which not to exceed $5,000 may be for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided, <<NOTE: 30 USC 1211 note.>> That 
appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.

    In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce permits 
issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95-87 (30 
U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 30 USC 1257 note.>> fees assessed and collected by the 
Office pursuant

[[Page 138 STAT. 230]]

to such section 507 shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Reduction.>> sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year 2024 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $116,186,000.

                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, $32,546,000, to 
be derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Debt 
collection. Contracts.>> pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department 
of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 percent from the recovery 
of the delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under title IV of Public Law 95-87 may be used for any 
required non-Federal share of the cost of projects funded by the Federal 
Government for the purpose of environmental restoration related to 
treatment or abatement of acid mine drainage from abandoned mines:  
Provided further, That such projects must be consistent with the 
purposes and priorities of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act:  Provided further, That amounts provided under this heading may be 
used for the travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal personnel 
attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored 
training:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses.

    In addition, $130,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
payments to States and federally recognized Indian tribes for 
reclamation of abandoned mine lands and other related activities in 
accordance with the terms and conditions described in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act):  Provided, That such additional amount shall be 
used for economic and community development in conjunction with the 
priorities described in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)):  Provided further, That of 
such additional amount, $86,000,000 shall be distributed in equal 
amounts to the three Appalachian States with the greatest amount of 
unfunded needs to meet the priorities described in paragraphs (1) and 
(2) of such section, $33,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts 
to the three Appalachian States with the subsequent greatest amount of 
unfunded needs to meet such priorities, and $11,000,000 shall be for 
grants to federally recognized Indian tribes, without regard to their 
status as certified or uncertified under the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of 
abandoned mine lands and other related activities in accordance with the 
terms and conditions described in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act) 
and shall be used for economic and community development in conjunction 
with the priorities in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Payments. State and 
local governments. Native Americans. Deadline.>> That such payments 
shall be made to States and federally recognized Indian tribes not later

[[Page 138 STAT. 231]]

than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That if payments <<NOTE: Payments. Reduction.>> have not been 
made by the date specified in the preceding proviso, the amount 
appropriated for salaries and expenses under the heading ``Office of 
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement'' shall be reduced by 
$100,000 per day until such payments have been made.

                             Indian Affairs

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13) and the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), $1,898,550,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, except as otherwise provided herein; 
of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for official reception and 
representation expenses; of which not to exceed $78,494,000 shall be for 
welfare assistance payments:  Provided, That in cases of designated 
Federal disasters, the Secretary of the Interior may exceed such cap for 
welfare payments from the amounts provided herein, to provide for 
disaster relief to Indian communities affected by the disaster:  
Provided further, That federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes may use their tribal 
priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance costs:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $69,995,000 shall remain available until 
expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, land acquisition, 
attorney fees, litigation support, land records improvement, hearings 
and appeals, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program:  Provided further, 
That of the amount appropriated under this heading, $841,000 shall be 
for projects specified for Special Initiatives (CDS) in the table titled 
``Interior and Environment Incorporation of Community Project Funding 
Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included for this 
division in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided 
further, That any forestry funds allocated to a federally recognized 
tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 2025, may be 
transferred during fiscal year 2026 to an Indian forest land assistance 
account established for the benefit of the holder of the funds within 
the holder's trust fund account:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  any such unobligated balances not so 
transferred shall expire on September 30, 2026:  Provided further, That 
in order to enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may 
use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles of clothing 
for personnel:  Provided further, That not to exceed $7,096,000 of funds 
made available under this heading may, as needed, be transferred to 
``Office of the Secretary--Departmental Operations'' for trust, probate, 
and administrative functions:  Provided further, That the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs may accept transfers of funds from United States Customs 
and Border Protection to supplement any other funding available for 
reconstruction or repair of roads owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs

[[Page 138 STAT. 232]]

as identified on the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 
23 U.S.C. 202(b)(1).

                        indian land consolidation

    For the acquisition of fractional interests to further land 
consolidation as authorized under the Indian Land Consolidation Act 
Amendments of 2000 (Public Law 106-462), and the American Indian Probate 
Reform Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-374), $4,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That any provision of the Indian Land 
Consolidation Act Amendments of 2000 (Public Law 106-462) that requires 
or otherwise relates to application of a lien shall not apply to the 
acquisitions funded herein.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract support 
costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of 
Indian Education for fiscal year 2024, such sums as may be necessary, 
which shall be available for obligation through September 30, 2025:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts 
made available under this heading shall be available for transfer to 
another budget account.

                       payments for tribal leases

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for leases pursuant 
to section 105(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5324(l)) for fiscal year 2024, such sums as 
may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, no amounts made available under this heading shall be available 
for transfer to another budget account.

                              construction

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of irrigation 
and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands, and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, and 
for construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant to 
Public Law 87-483; $133,780,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amounts as may be available for the construction of 
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project may be transferred to the Bureau of 
Reclamation:  Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety 
of Dams program pursuant to the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), 
shall be made available on a nonreimbursable basis:  Provided further, 
That this appropriation <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  may be reimbursed from 
the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration appropriation for the 
appropriate share of construction costs for space expansion needed in 
agency offices to meet trust reform implementation:  Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall 
be derived from the Indian Irrigation Fund established by section

[[Page 138 STAT. 233]]

3211 of the WIIN Act (Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1749):  Provided 
further, That amounts provided under this heading are made available for 
the modernization of Federal field communication capabilities, in 
addition to amounts otherwise made available for such purpose.

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                 indians

    For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements pursuant to 
Public Laws 99-264, and 101-618, and for implementation of other land 
and water rights settlements, $976,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, $13,329,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, of which $2,125,000 is for 
administrative expenses, as authorized by the Indian Financing Act of 
1974:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed or 
insured, not to exceed $185,707,188.

                       Bureau of Indian Education

                 operation of indian education programs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian education 
programs, as authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 
1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education 
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled 
Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $1,131,617,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, except as otherwise provided herein: 
 Provided, That federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes may use their tribal 
priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance costs:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $833,592,000 for school operations costs of 
Bureau-funded schools and other education programs shall become 
available on July 1, 2024, and shall remain available until September 
30, 2025:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including but not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of the Education 
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $95,822,000 within 
and only from such amounts made available for school operations shall be 
available for administrative cost grants associated with grants approved 
prior to July 1, 2024:  Provided further, That in order to enhance the 
safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may use funds to purchase 
uniforms or other identifying articles of clothing for personnel.

[[Page 138 STAT. 234]]

                         education construction

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of buildings, 
utilities, and other facilities necessary for the operation of Indian 
education programs, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; $234,725,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
order <<NOTE: Deadline.>> to ensure timely completion of construction 
projects, the Secretary of the Interior may assume control of a project 
and all funds related to the project, if, not later than 18 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, any Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 
2501, et seq.) grantee receiving funds appropriated in this Act or in 
any prior Act, has not completed the planning and design phase of the 
project and commenced construction.

                        administrative provisions

    The <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants.>> Bureau of Indian Affairs and the 
Bureau of Indian Education may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.

    Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 
15), the Bureau of Indian Affairs may contract for services in support 
of the management, operation, and maintenance of the Power Division of 
the San Carlos Irrigation Project.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of Indian Education for 
central office oversight and Executive Direction and Administrative 
Services (except Executive Direction and Administrative Services funding 
for Tribal Priority Allocations, regional offices, and facilities 
operations and maintenance) shall be available for contracts, grants, 
compacts, or cooperative agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or 
the Bureau of Indian Education under the provisions of the Indian Self-
Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by this 
Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of Indian Education, 
this action shall not diminish the Federal Government's trust 
responsibility to that tribe, or the government-to-government 
relationship between the United States and that tribe, or that tribe's 
ability to access future appropriations.
    Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Alaska.>>  any other provision of law, no 
funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the 
amounts provided herein for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 
452 et seq., shall be available to support the operation of any 
elementary or secondary school in the State of Alaska.

    No funds <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>> available to the 
Bureau of Indian Education shall be used to support expanded grades for 
any school or dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved 
by the Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau of Indian 
Education school system as of October 1, 1995, except that the Secretary 
of the Interior may waive this prohibition to support expansion of up to 
one additional grade when the Secretary determines such waiver is needed 
to support accomplishment of the mission of the Bureau of Indian 
Education, or more than one grade to expand the elementary grade 
structure for Bureau-funded schools with

[[Page 138 STAT. 235]]

a K-2 grade structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations made available 
in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau shall be 
available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, only to the 
schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, and to any 
school or school program that was reinstated in fiscal year 
2012. <<NOTE: Charter schools. Reimbursement.>> Funds made available 
under this Act may not be used to establish a charter school at a 
Bureau-funded school (as that term is defined in section 1141 of the 
Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that a charter 
school that is in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
that has operated at a Bureau-funded school before September 1, 1999, 
may continue to operate during that period, but only if the charter 
school pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reimburse the 
Bureau for the use of the real and personal property (including buses 
and vans), the funds of the charter school are kept separate and apart 
from Bureau funds, and the Bureau does not assume any obligation for 
charter school programs of the State in which the school is located if 
the charter school loses such funding. Employees of Bureau-funded 
schools sharing a campus with a charter school and performing functions 
related to the charter school's operation and employees of a charter 
school shall not be treated as Federal employees for purposes of chapter 
171 of title 28, United States Code.

    Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Continuation.>> any other provision of law, 
including section 113 of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if 
in fiscal year 2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect and 
administrative costs pursuant to a distribution formula based on section 
5(f) of Public Law 101-301, the Secretary shall continue to distribute 
indirect and administrative cost funds to such grantee using the section 
5(f) distribution formula.

    Funds <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Compliance.>> available under this 
Act may not be used to establish satellite locations of schools in the 
Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary 
may waive this prohibition in order for an Indian tribe to provide 
language and cultural immersion educational programs for non-public 
schools located within the jurisdictional area of the tribal government 
which exclusively serve tribal members, do not include grades beyond 
those currently served at the existing Bureau-funded school, provide an 
educational environment with educator presence and academic facilities 
comparable to the Bureau-funded school, comply with all applicable 
Tribal, Federal, or State health and safety standards, and the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, and demonstrate the benefits of establishing 
operations at a satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary 
costs, such as for transportation or other impacts to students such as 
those caused by busing students extended distances:  Provided, That no 
funds available under this Act may be used to fund operations, 
maintenance, rehabilitation, construction, or other facilities-related 
costs for such assets that are not owned by the Bureau:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That the term ``satellite school'' means 
a school location physically separated from the existing Bureau school 
by more than 50 miles but that forms part of the existing school in all 
other respects.

    Funds made available for Tribal Priority Allocations within 
Operation of Indian Programs and Operation of Indian Education Programs 
may be used to execute requested adjustments in tribal priority 
allocations initiated by an Indian tribe.

[[Page 138 STAT. 236]]

                  Bureau of Trust Funds Administration

                         federal trust programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
$100,009,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$17,152,000 from this or any other Act, may be available for settlement 
support:  Provided, That funds for trust management improvements and 
litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs, ``Operation of Indian Programs'' and Bureau of 
Indian Education, ``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' accounts; 
the Office of the Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' account; and the 
Office of the Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' account:  Provided 
further, That funds made available through contracts or grants obligated 
during fiscal year 2024, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination 
Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain available until 
expended by the contractor or grantee:  Provided <<NOTE: Time 
period.>> further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary shall not be required to provide a quarterly statement of 
performance for any Indian trust account that has not had activity for 
at least 15 months and has a balance of $15 or less:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall issue an annual account statement and maintain 
a record of any such accounts and shall permit the balance in each such 
account to be withdrawn upon the express written request of the account 
holder:  Provided further, That not to exceed $100,000 is available for 
the Secretary to make payments to correct administrative errors of 
either disbursements from or deposits to Individual Indian Money or 
Tribal accounts after September 30, 2002:  Provided further, That 
erroneous payments that are recovered shall be credited to and remain 
available in this account for this purpose:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall not be required to reconcile Special Deposit Accounts 
with a balance of less than $500 unless the Bureau of Trust Funds 
Administration receives proof of ownership from a Special Deposit 
Accounts claimant:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time 
period.>> notwithstanding section 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund 
Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or any other 
provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust accounts of 
individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a continuous period of at 
least 5 years and shall not be required to generate periodic statements 
of performance for the individual accounts:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Records. Determination.>> That with respect to the 
preceding proviso, the Secretary shall continue to maintain sufficient 
records to determine the balance of the individual accounts, including 
any accrued interest and income, and such funds shall remain available 
to the individual account holders.

[[Page 138 STAT. 237]]

                          Departmental Offices

                         Office of the Secretary

                         departmental operations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by 
law, $147,418,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025; of 
which not to exceed $15,000 may be for official reception and 
representation expenses; of which up to $1,000,000 shall be available 
for workers compensation payments and unemployment compensation payments 
associated with the orderly closure of the United States Bureau of 
Mines; and of which $14,295,000 for Indian land, mineral, and resource 
valuation activities shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That funds for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation activities 
may, as needed, be transferred to and merged with the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs ``Operation of Indian Programs'' and Bureau of Indian Education 
``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' accounts and the Bureau of 
Trust Funds Administration ``Federal Trust Programs'' account:  Provided 
further, That funds made available through contracts or grants obligated 
during fiscal year 2024, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination 
Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain available until 
expended by the contractor or grantee:  Provided further, That funds 
provided under this heading in this Act may be transferred to and merged 
with ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--Resource Management'' 
only to implement the functional transfer of the Office of Subsistence 
Management to the Office of the Secretary and maintain uninterrupted 
execution of ongoing subsistence management activities.

                        administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2024, up to $400,000 of the payments authorized by 
chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may be retained for 
administrative expenses of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program:  
Provided, That the amounts provided under this Act specifically for the 
Payments in Lieu of Taxes program are the only amounts available for 
payments authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: 31 USC 6903 note.>> That in the event the sums 
appropriated for any fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter 
are insufficient to make the full payments authorized by that chapter to 
all units of local government, then the payment to each local government 
shall be made proportionally:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
make adjustments to payment to individual units of local government to 
correct for prior overpayments or underpayments:  Provided further, That 
no payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise eligible 
units of local government if the computed amount of the payment is less 
than $100.

[[Page 138 STAT. 238]]

                             Insular Affairs

                        assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other jurisdictions 
identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188, $120,107,000, of 
which: (1) $109,890,000 shall remain available until expended for 
territorial assistance, including general technical assistance, 
maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative and 
natural resources activities, and brown tree snake control and research; 
grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and expenses, 
as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of 
American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, for construction 
and support of governmental functions; grants to the Government of the 
Virgin Islands, as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, 
as authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, as authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); 
and (2) $10,217,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025, for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Audits. 48 USC 1469b.>> That all financial 
transactions of the territorial and local governments herein provided 
for, including such transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities 
established or used by such governments, may be audited by the 
Government Accountability Office, at its discretion, in accordance with 
chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be provided 
according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special Representatives 
on Future United States Financial Assistance for the Northern Mariana 
Islands approved by Public Law 104-134:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That the funds for the program of 
operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated to 
institutionalize routine operations and maintenance improvement of 
capital infrastructure with territorial participation and cost sharing 
to be determined by the Secretary based on the grantee's commitment to 
timely maintenance of its capital assets:  Provided further, That any 
appropriation for disaster assistance under this heading in this Act or 
previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds 
for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to section 
404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                       compact of free association

    For grants and necessary expenses, $3,463,000, to remain available 
until expended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2) and 233 of the 
Compact of Free Association for the Republic of Palau; and section 
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association for the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, 
as authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                        Administrative Provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    At the <<NOTE: Guam. Loans.>>  request of the Governor of Guam, the 
Secretary may transfer discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided 
under

[[Page 138 STAT. 239]]

section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 104-134, that are 
allocated for Guam, to the Secretary of Agriculture for the subsidy cost 
of direct or guaranteed loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the 
amount of the subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, 
for the purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act for 
construction and repair projects in Guam, and such funds shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such loans or 
loan guarantees may be made without regard to the population of the 
area, credit elsewhere requirements, and restrictions on the types of 
eligible entities under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act:  
Provided further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available to 
make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                         Office of the Solicitor

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $97,950,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$67,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                        Department-Wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire suppression 
operations, fire science and research, emergency rehabilitation, fuels 
management activities, and rural fire assistance by the Department of 
the Interior, $1,113,471,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be for the renovation or 
construction of fire facilities:  Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from 
which funds were previously transferred for such purposes:  Provided 
further, That of the funds provided $214,450,000 is for fuels management 
activities:  Provided further, That of the funds provided $10,000,000 is 
for burned area rehabilitation:  Provided further, That persons hired 
pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging 
without cost from funds available from this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau 
or office of the Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United States 
property, may be credited to the appropriation from which funds were 
expended to provide that protection, and are available without

[[Page 138 STAT. 240]]

fiscal year limitation:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants.>> That using the amounts designated 
under this title of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter 
into procurement contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for fuels 
management activities, and for training and monitoring associated with 
such fuels management activities on Federal land, or on adjacent non-
Federal land for activities that benefit resources on Federal land:  
Provided further, That the costs of implementing any cooperative 
agreement between the Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may 
be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding requirements of the Competition in 
Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of fuels management 
activities, may obtain maximum practicable competition among: (1) local 
private, nonprofit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth Conservation 
Corps crews, Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or related 
partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; (3) small or 
micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that will hire or train locally 
a significant percentage, defined as 50 percent or more, of the project 
workforce to complete such contracts: <<NOTE: Guidance.>>   Provided 
further, That in implementing this section, the Secretary shall develop 
written guidance to field units to ensure accountability and consistent 
application of the authorities provided 
herein: <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>   Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be used to reimburse the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries 
Service for the costs of carrying out their responsibilities under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and 
conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in connection with 
wildland fire management activities:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary <<NOTE: Contracts. Real property. State and local 
governments.>>  of the Interior may use wildland fire appropriations to 
enter into leases of real property with local governments, at or below 
fair market value, to construct capitalized improvements for fire 
facilities on such leased properties, including but not limited to fire 
guard stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack and fire 
support facilities, and to make advance payments for any such lease or 
for construction activity associated with the lease:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may 
authorize the transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire 
management, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 between the 
Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite wildland 
fire management programs and projects:  Provided further, That funds 
provided for wildfire suppression shall be available for support of 
Federal emergency response actions:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance to or 
through the Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall be available 
to support forestry, wildland fire management, and related natural 
resource activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, and 
cooperation with United States and international organizations:  
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading in this 
Act and unobligated balances made available under this heading in prior 
Acts, other than amounts designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of

[[Page 138 STAT. 241]]

1985, shall be available, in addition to any other funds made available 
for such purpose, to continue uninterrupted the Federal wildland 
firefighter base salary increases provided under section 40803(d)(4)(B) 
of Public Law 117-58:  Provided further, That of the funds provided 
under this heading, $383,657,000 shall be available for wildfire 
suppression operations, and is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

              wildfire suppression operations reserve fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    In addition to the amounts provided under the heading ``Department 
of the Interior--Department-Wide Programs--Wildland Fire Management'' 
for wildfire suppression operations, $350,000,000, to remain available 
until transferred, is additional new budget authority as specified for 
purposes of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided, That such amounts may be 
transferred to and merged with amounts made available under the headings 
``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire Management'' 
and ``Department of the Interior--Department-Wide Programs--Wildland 
Fire Management'' for wildfire suppression operations in the fiscal year 
in which such amounts are 
transferred: <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>   Provided further, That 
amounts may be transferred to the ``Wildland Fire Management'' accounts 
in the Department of Agriculture or the Department of the Interior only 
upon the notification of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations that all wildfire suppression operations funds 
appropriated under that heading in this and prior appropriations Acts to 
the agency to which the funds will be transferred will be obligated 
within 30 days:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law:  Provided further, That, in 
determining <<NOTE: Determination. Deadline.>>  whether all wildfire 
suppression operations funds appropriated under the heading ``Wildland 
Fire Management'' in this and prior appropriations Acts to either the 
Department of Agriculture or the Department of the Interior will be 
obligated within 30 days pursuant to the preceding proviso, any funds 
transferred or permitted to be transferred pursuant to any other 
transfer authority provided by law shall be excluded.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the response action, including 
associated activities, performed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), $9,661,000, to remain available until expended.

                 energy community revitalization program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior to 
inventory, assess, decommission, reclaim, respond to hazardous substance 
releases, remediate lands pursuant to section 40704 of Public

[[Page 138 STAT. 242]]

Law 117-58 (30 U.S.C. 1245), and carry out the purposes of section 349 
of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15907), as amended, 
$4,800,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That amounts appropriated under this 
heading are available for program management and oversight of these 
activities: <<NOTE: Grants.>>   Provided further, That the Secretary may 
transfer the funds provided under this heading in this Act to any other 
account in the Department to carry out such purposes, and may expend 
such funds directly, or through grants:  Provided further, That these 
amounts are not available to fulfill Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) 
obligations agreed to in settlement or imposed by a court, whether for 
payment of funds or for work to be performed.

           natural resource damage assessment and restoration

                 natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the Department of the 
Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 54 
U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,715,000, to remain available until expended.

                          working capital fund

    For the operation and maintenance of a departmental financial and 
business management system, data management, information technology 
improvements of general benefit to the Department, cybersecurity, and 
the consolidation of facilities and operations throughout the 
Department, $107,710,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Advance approval.>> none of the funds appropriated in this 
Act or any other Act may be used to establish reserves in the Working 
Capital Fund account other than for accrued annual leave and 
depreciation of equipment without prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Interior may assess reasonable 
charges to State, local, and tribal government employees for training 
services provided by the National Indian Program Training Center, other 
than training related to Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Contracts. State and local governments. Tribal 
governments.>>  Secretary may lease or otherwise provide space and 
related facilities, equipment, or professional services of the National 
Indian Program Training Center to State, local and tribal government 
employees or persons or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, 
or recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of title 40, 
United States Code) at the prevailing rate for similar space, 
facilities, equipment, or services in the vicinity of the National 
Indian Program Training Center:  Provided further, That all funds 
received pursuant to the two preceding provisos shall be credited to 
this account, shall be available until expended, and shall be used by 
the Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian Program 
Training Center:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>>  Secretary may enter into grants

[[Page 138 STAT. 243]]

and cooperative agreements to support the Office of Natural Resource 
Revenue's collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, and other 
mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may be obtained by 
donation, purchase, or through available excess surplus property:  
Provided, That existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price for 
the replacement aircraft.

                   office of natural resources revenue

    For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds, and 
for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by law, 
$167,937,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025; of which 
$69,751,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
mineral revenue management activities:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Secretary of the Interior concurred with the claimed refund due, to pay 
amounts owed to Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct prior 
unrecoverable erroneous payments.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

    Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary of the Interior, for the emergency 
reconstruction, replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, 
utilities, or other facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by 
fire, flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes:  Provided, That no 
funds shall be made available under this authority until funds 
specifically made available to the Department of the Interior for 
emergencies shall have been exhausted:  Provided further, That all funds 
used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation, which must be requested as promptly as possible.

              emergency transfer authority--department-wide

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary of the Interior may authorize the 
expenditure or transfer of any no year appropriation in this title, in 
addition to the amounts included in the budget programs of the several 
agencies, for the suppression or emergency prevention of wildland fires 
on or threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for 
contingency planning subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and 
natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual oil 
spills or releases of hazardous

[[Page 138 STAT. 244]]

substances into the environment; for the prevention, suppression, and 
control of actual or potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks 
on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the 
authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); 
for emergency reclamation projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-
87; and shall transfer, from any no year funds available to the Office 
of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds as may be 
necessary to permit assumption of regulatory authority in the event a 
primacy State is not carrying out the regulatory provisions of the 
Surface Mining Act:  Provided, That 
appropriations <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  made in this title for wildland 
fire operations shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred during the preceding fiscal year, and for reimbursement to 
other Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other 
equipment in connection with their use for wildland fire operations, 
with such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently 
available at the time of receipt <<NOTE: Determination. Deadline.>>  
thereof:  Provided further, That for wildland fire operations, no funds 
shall be made available under this authority until the Secretary 
determines that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire suppression'' 
shall be exhausted within 30 days:  Provided further, That all funds 
used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation, which must be requested as 
promptly <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  as possible:  Provided further, That 
such replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata 
basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.

                         authorized use of funds

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, when authorized by the Secretary of the 
Interior, in total amount not to exceed $500,000; purchase and 
replacement of motor vehicles, including specially equipped law 
enforcement vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

    Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the headings Bureau 
of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, and Bureau of Trust 
Funds Administration and any unobligated balances from prior 
appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management and reform 
activities. Total funding for settlement support activities shall not 
exceed amounts specifically designated in this Act for such 
purpose. <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Secretary shall notify 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 60 days of the 
expenditure or transfer of any funds under this section, including the 
amount expended or transferred and how the funds will be used.

[[Page 138 STAT. 245]]

            redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal Priority 
Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate tribal 
funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, unmet 
needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 2024. 
Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or 
inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation does 
not apply.

                  Ellis, Governors, and Liberty Islands

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: New York. New Jersey. Contracts.>> Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized 
to acquire lands, waters, or interests therein, including the use of all 
or part of any pier, dock, or landing within the State of New York and 
the State of New Jersey, for the purpose of operating and maintaining 
facilities in the support of transportation and accommodation of 
visitors to Ellis, Governors, and Liberty Islands, and of other program 
and administrative activities, by donation or with appropriated funds, 
including franchise fees (and other monetary consideration), or by 
exchange; and the Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into 
leases, subleases, concession contracts, or other agreements for the use 
of such facilities on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
determine reasonable.

                 outer continental shelf inspection fees

    Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2024, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall collect a nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be deposited 
in the ``Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement'' account, from 
the designated operator for facilities subject to inspection under 43 
U.S.C. 1348(c).
    (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are above the 
waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in place at the start of the 
fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2024 shall be--
            (1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
        processing equipment or gathering lines;
            (2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells; and
            (3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells.

    (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all inspections 
completed in fiscal year 2024. Fees for fiscal year 2024 shall be--
            (1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of 500 feet or more; and
            (2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of less than 500 feet.

    (d) Fees for inspection of well operations conducted via non-rig 
units as outlined in title 30 CFR 250 subparts D, E, F, and Q shall be 
assessed for all inspections completed in fiscal year 2024. Fees for 
fiscal year 2024 shall be--
            (1) $13,260 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of 2,500 feet or more;

[[Page 138 STAT. 246]]

            (2) $11,530 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths between 500 and 2,499 feet; and
            (3) $4,470 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of less than 500 feet.

    (e) <<NOTE: Time period. Deadlines.>> The Secretary shall bill 
designated operators under subsection (b) quarterly, with payment 
required within 30 days of billing. The Secretary shall bill designated 
operators under subsection (c) within 30 days of the end of the month in 
which the inspection occurred, with payment required within 30 days of 
billing. The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection 
(d) with payment required by the end of the following quarter.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

    Sec. 108. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1336 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into 
multiyear cooperative agreements with nonprofit organizations and other 
appropriate entities, and may enter into multiyear contracts in 
accordance with the provisions of section 3903 of title 41, United 
States Code (except that the 5-year term restriction in subsection (a) 
shall not apply), for the long-term care and maintenance of excess wild 
free roaming horses and burros by such organizations or entities on 
private land. Such cooperative <<NOTE: Time period.>>  agreements and 
contracts may not exceed 10 years, subject to renewal at the discretion 
of the Secretary.

                        mass marking of salmonids

    Sec. 109.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall, in 
carrying out its responsibilities to protect threatened and endangered 
species of salmon, implement a system of mass marking of salmonid 
stocks, intended for harvest, that are released from federally operated 
or federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to fish 
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked fish must have 
a visible mark that can be readily identified by commercial and 
recreational fishers.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

    Sec. 110.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 2024, in carrying out work involving cooperation with State, local, 
and tribal governments or any political subdivision thereof, Indian 
Affairs may record obligations against accounts receivable from any such 
entities, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year 
shall not exceed total budgetary resources available at the end of the 
fiscal year.

         department of the interior experienced services program

    Sec. 111. (a) <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law relating to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, 
the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make grants to, or enter 
into cooperative agreements with, private nonprofit organizations 
designated by the Secretary of Labor under title V of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 to utilize the talents of older Americans in 
programs authorized by other provisions of law administered by the 
Secretary and consistent with such provisions of law.

[[Page 138 STAT. 247]]

    (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement would not--
            (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
        employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
        through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
        benefits;
            (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
        of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
        function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
        status from the same or substantially equivalent job within the 
        Department; or
            (3) affect existing contracts for services.

                           obligation of funds

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Amounts appropriated by this Act to 
the Department of the Interior shall be available for obligation and 
expenditure not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

                         separation of accounts

    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement an 
orderly transition to separate accounts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
and the Bureau of Indian Education, may transfer funds among and between 
the successor offices and bureaus affected by the reorganization only in 
conformance with the reprogramming guidelines described in this Act.

                    payments in lieu of taxes (pilt)

    Sec. 114. <<NOTE: Applicability. 31 USC 6906 note.>> Section 6906 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal 
year 2024'' for ``fiscal year 2019''.

         disclosure of departure or alternate procedure approval

    Sec. 115. (a) <<NOTE: Web posting. Public 
information. Deadline.>> Subject to subsection (b), in any case in which 
the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or the Bureau of 
Ocean Energy Management prescribes or approves any departure or use of 
alternate procedure or equipment, in regards to a plan or permit, under 
30 CFR 585.103; 30 CFR 550.141; 30 CFR 550.142; 30 CFR 250.141; or 30 
CFR 250.142, the head of such bureau shall post a description of such 
departure or alternate procedure or equipment use approval on such 
bureau's publicly available website not more than 15 business days after 
such issuance.

    (b) The head of each bureau may exclude confidential business 
information.

                           long bridge project

    Sec. 116. (a) <<NOTE: Virginia. District of Columbia.>>  
Authorization of Conveyance.--On request by the State of Virginia or the 
District of Columbia for the purpose of the construction of rail and 
other infrastructure relating to the Long Bridge Project, the Secretary 
of the Interior may convey to the State or the District of Columbia, as 
applicable, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to any portion of the approximately 4.4 acres of National Park Service 
land depicted as ``Permanent Impact to NPS Land'' on the Map dated

[[Page 138 STAT. 248]]

May 15, 2020, that is identified by the State or the District of 
Columbia.

    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Such conveyance of the National Park 
Service land under subsection (a) shall be subject to any terms and 
conditions that the Secretary may require. If such conveyed land is no 
longer being used for the purposes specified in this section, the lands 
or interests therein shall revert to the National Park Service after 
they have been restored or remediated to the satisfaction of the 
Secretary.
    (c) Corrections.--The Secretary and the State or the District of 
Columbia, as applicable, by mutual agreement, may--
            (1) make minor boundary adjustments to the National Park 
        Service land to be conveyed to the State or the District of 
        Columbia under subsection (a); and
            (2) correct any minor errors in the Map referred to in 
        subsection (a).

    (d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) Long bridge project.--The term ``Long Bridge Project'' 
        means the rail project, as identified by the Federal Railroad 
        Administration, from Rosslyn (RO) Interlocking in Arlington, 
        Virginia, to L'Enfant (LE) Interlocking in Washington, DC, which 
        includes a bicycle and pedestrian bridge.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Virginia.

                         interagency motor pool

    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law or Federal 
regulation, federally recognized Indian tribes or authorized tribal 
organizations that receive Tribally-Controlled School Grants pursuant to 
Public Law 100-297 may obtain interagency motor vehicles and related 
services for performance of any activities carried out under such grants 
to the same extent as if they were contracting under the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act.

                         appraiser pay authority

    Sec. 118.  For fiscal year 2024, funds made available in this or any 
other Act or otherwise made available to the Department of the Interior 
for the Appraisal and Valuation Services Office may be used by the 
Secretary of the Interior to establish higher minimum rates of basic pay 
for employees of the Department of the Interior in the Appraiser (GS-
1171) job series at grades 11 through 15 carrying out appraisals of real 
property and appraisal reviews conducted in support of the Department's 
realty programs at rates no greater than 15 percent above the minimum 
rates of basic pay normally scheduled, and such higher rates shall be 
consistent with subsections (e) through (h) of section 5305 of title 5, 
United States Code.

                               sage-grouse

    Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to write or issue pursuant 
to section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)--

[[Page 138 STAT. 249]]

            (1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus 
        urophasianus);
            (2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin distinct 
        population segment of greater sage-grouse.

                        state conservation grants

    Sec. 120.  For expenses necessary to carry out section 200305 of 
title 54, United States Code, the National Park Service may retain up to 
7 percent of the State Conservation Grants program to provide to States, 
the District of Columbia, and insular areas, as matching grants to 
support state program administrative costs.

                 retention of concession franchise fees

    Sec. 121.  Section 101917(c) of title 54, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Reduction.--The Secretary may reduce the percentage 
        allocation otherwise applicable under paragraph (2) to a unit or 
        area of the National Park Service for a fiscal year if the 
        Secretary determines that the revenues collected at the unit or 
        area exceed the reasonable needs of the unit or area for which 
        expenditures may be made for that fiscal year. In no event may a 
        percentage allocation be reduced below 60 percent.''.

                   historic preservation fund deposits

    Sec. 122. <<NOTE: Applicability. 54 USC 303102 note.>> Section 
303102 of title 54, United States Code, shall be applied by substituting 
``fiscal year 2024'' for ``fiscal year 2023''.

                         decommissioning account

    Sec. 123. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1338a.>>   The matter under the amended 
heading ``Royalty and Offshore Minerals Management'' for the Minerals 
Management Service in Public Law 101-512 (104 Stat. 1926, as amended) 
(43 U.S.C. 1338a) is further amended by striking the fifth and sixth 
provisos in their entirety and inserting the following: ``Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code, any moneys hereafter received as a result of the forfeiture of a 
bond or other security by an Outer Continental Shelf permittee, lessee, 
or right-of-way holder that does not fulfill the requirements of its 
permit, lease, or right-of-way or does not comply with the regulations 
of the Secretary, or as a bankruptcy distribution or settlement 
associated with such failure or noncompliance, shall be credited to a 
separate account established in the Treasury for decommissioning 
activities and shall be available to the Bureau of Ocean Energy 
Management without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation to 
cover the cost to the United States of any improvement, protection, 
rehabilitation, or decommissioning work rendered necessary by the action 
or inaction that led to the forfeiture or bankruptcy distribution or 
settlement, to remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Allocation.>>  amounts deposited into the decommissioning 
account may be allocated to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental 
Enforcement for such costs: Provided further, That any moneys received 
for such costs currently held in the Ocean Energy Management account 
shall be transferred to the decommissioning account: Provided further, 
That any portion

[[Page 138 STAT. 250]]

of the moneys so credited shall be returned to the bankruptcy estate, 
permittee, lessee, or right-of-way holder to the extent that the money 
is in excess of the amount expended in performing the work necessitated 
by the action or inaction which led to their receipt or, if the bond or 
security was forfeited for failure to pay the civil penalty, in excess 
of the civil penalty imposed.''.

                       nonrecurring expenses fund

    Sec. 124. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1474g.>> There is hereby established in the 
Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ``Department of 
the Interior Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'' (the Fund):  Provided, That 
unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for 
this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury 
to the Department of the Interior by this or any other Act may be 
transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the 
last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for 
which appropriated) into the Fund:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition 
to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for 
information and business technology system modernization and facilities 
infrastructure improvements and associated administrative expenses, 
including nonrecurring maintenance, necessary for the operation of the 
Department or its bureaus, subject to approval by the Office of 
Management and Budget:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Advance 
approvals.>> That amounts in the Fund may not be obligated without 
written notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
conformance with the reprogramming guidelines described in this Act.

                ebey's landing national historic reserve

    Sec. 125.  Section 508(f) of Public Law <<NOTE: 54 USC 320101 
note.>>  95-625 (92 stat. 3509) is amended by striking ``not to exceed 
$5,000,000'' and inserting ``$18,000,000''.

              interior authority for operating efficiencies

    Sec. 126. (a) In fiscal years 2024 and 2025, the Secretary of the 
Interior may authorize and execute agreements to achieve operating 
efficiencies among and between two or more component bureaus and offices 
through the following activities:
            (1) co-locating in offices and facilities leased or owned by 
        any such component and sharing related utilities and equipment;
            (2) detailing or assigning staff on a non-reimbursable basis 
        for up to 5 business days; and
            (3) sharing staff and equipment necessary to meet mission 
        requirements.

    (b) The authority provided by subsection (a) is to support areas of 
mission alignment between and among component bureaus and offices or 
where geographic proximity allows for efficiencies.
    (c) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Bureaus and offices entering into 
agreements authorized under subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3) shall bear 
costs for such agreements in a manner that reflects their approximate 
benefit and share of total costs, which may or may not include indirect 
costs.

[[Page 138 STAT. 251]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>> In furtherance of the requirement in 
subsection (c), the Secretary of the Interior may make transfers of 
funds in advance or on a reimbursable basis.






__________

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 252]]

                                TITLE II

                     ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980; necessary expenses for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; and other 
operating expenses in support of research and development, $758,103,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That of the 
funds included under this heading, $19,530,000 shall be for Research: 
National Priorities as specified in the explanatory statement described 
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated 
Act), of which $2,030,000 shall be for projects specified for Science 
and Technology in the table titled ``Interior and Environment 
Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally 
Directed Spending Items'' included for this division in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act).

                  Environmental Programs and Management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs and 
travel expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, 
and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library memberships in 
societies or associations which issue publications to members only or at 
a price to members lower than to subscribers who are not members; 
administrative costs of the brownfields program under the Small Business 
Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002; 
implementation of a coal combustion residual permit program under 
section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to exceed 
$40,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$3,178,028,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided 
further, That of the funds included under this heading--
            (1) $30,700,000 shall be for Environmental Protection: 
        National Priorities as specified in the explanatory statement 
        described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
        this consolidated Act);
            (2) $681,726,000 shall be for Geographic Programs as 
        specified in the explanatory statement described in section 4 
        (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act); 
        and
            (3) $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
        be for grants, including grants that may be awarded on a non-
        competitive basis, interagency agreements, and associated 
        program support costs to establish and implement a program to 
        assist Alaska Native Regional Corporations, Alaskan Native 
        Village Corporations, federally-recognized tribes in Alaska, 
        Alaska Native Non-Profit Organizations and Alaska Native 
        Nonprofit Associations, and intertribal consortia comprised of

[[Page 138 STAT. 253]]

        Alaskan tribal entities to address contamination on lands 
        conveyed under or pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) that were or are 
        contaminated at the time of conveyance and are on an inventory 
        of such lands developed and maintained by the Environmental 
        Protection Agency:  Provided, <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>> That 
        grants awarded using funds made available in this paragraph may 
        be used by a recipient to supplement other funds provided by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency through individual media or 
        multi-media grants or cooperative agreements:  Provided further, 
        That of the amounts made available in this paragraph, in 
        addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, the 
        Environmental Protection Agency may reserve up to $2,000,000 for 
        salaries, expenses, and administration of the program and for 
        grants related to such program that address contamination on 
        lands conveyed under or pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) that were or are 
        contaminated at the time of conveyance and are on the EPA 
        inventory of such lands.

In addition, $9,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses of activities described in section 26(b)(1) of the 
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2625(b)(1)):  Provided, That 
fees collected pursuant to that section of that Act and deposited in the 
``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal 
year 2024 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and expenses 
in this appropriation and shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reduction.>> That the sum herein appropriated 
in this paragraph from the general fund for fiscal year 2024 shall be 
reduced by the amount of discretionary offsetting receipts received 
during fiscal year 2024, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2024 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent that amounts realized from such 
receipts exceed $9,000,000, those amounts in excess of $9,000,000 shall 
be deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary 
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2024, shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of 
the <<NOTE: Allocation.>> funds included in the first paragraph under 
this heading, the Chemical Risk Review and Reduction program project 
shall be allocated for this fiscal year, excluding the amount of any 
fees appropriated, not less than the amount of appropriations for that 
program project for fiscal year 2014.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$43,250,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That the Office of Inspector General shall be subject to the terms, 
conditions, and requirements specified under this heading in Senate 
Report 118-83.

                        Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $40,676,000, to remain available until 
expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 254]]

                      Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including 
sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611), and 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $537,700,000, to remain 
available until expended, consisting of such sums as are available in 
the Trust Fund on September 30, 2023, and not otherwise appropriated 
from the Trust Fund, as authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $537,700,000 
as a payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund 
for purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of 
SARA: <<NOTE: Allocations.>>   Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this heading may be allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance 
with section 111(a) of CERCLA:  Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $11,328,000 shall be paid to the 
``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, and $30,343,000 shall be paid to the ``Science and 
Technology'' appropriation to remain available until September 30, 2025.

           Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of the Solid Waste Disposal 
Act, $89,214,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$64,723,000 shall be for carrying out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act; and $24,491,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code:  Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to use appropriations made available under this heading to 
implement section 9013 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide 
financial assistance to federally recognized Indian tribes for the 
development and implementation of programs to manage underground storage 
tanks.

                        Inland Oil Spill Programs

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, including 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $20,711,000, to be derived 
from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $4,418,938,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which--
            (1) $1,638,861,000 shall be for making capitalization grants 
        for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which

[[Page 138 STAT. 255]]

        $1,126,101,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for the 
        Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of the 
        Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, That $787,652,267 of the 
        funds made available for capitalization grants for the Clean 
        Water State Revolving Funds and $631,659,905 of the funds made 
        available for capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State 
        Revolving Funds shall be for the construction of drinking water, 
        wastewater, and storm water infrastructure and for water quality 
        protection in accordance with the terms and conditions specified 
        for such grants in the explanatory statement described in 
        section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
        consolidated Act) for projects specified for ``STAG--Drinking 
        Water State Revolving Fund'' and ``STAG--Clean Water State 
        Revolving Fund'' in the table titled ``Interior and Environment 
        Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally 
        Directed Spending Items'' included for this division in the 
        explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
        preceding division A of this consolidated Act), and, for 
        purposes of these grants, each grantee shall contribute not less 
        than 20 percent of the cost of the project unless the grantee is 
        approved for a waiver by the Agency:  Provided further, That 
        $13,300,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading for 
        capitalization grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds 
        and for capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State 
        Revolving Funds, in addition to amounts otherwise available for 
        such purposes, may be used by the Administrator for salaries, 
        expenses, and administration for Community Project Funding 
        Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items:  Provided 
        further, That the amounts in the preceding proviso under this 
        heading shall not be available for obligation until the report, 
        as specified under this heading in the explanatory statement 
        described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
        this consolidated Act) is received by the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
        Provided further, That for fiscal year 2024, to the extent there 
        are sufficient eligible project applications and projects are 
        consistent with State Intended Use Plans, not less than 10 
        percent of the funds made available under this title to each 
        State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants 
        shall be used by the State for projects to address green 
        infrastructure, water or energy efficiency improvements, or 
        other environmentally innovative activities:  Provided further, 
        That for fiscal year 2024, funds made available under this title 
        to each State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
        capitalization grants may, at the discretion of each State, be 
        used for projects to address green infrastructure, water or 
        energy efficiency improvements, or other environmentally 
        innovative activities:  Provided further, That the Administrator 
        is authorized to use up to $1,500,000 of funds made available 
        for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under this heading 
        under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
        U.S.C. 1381) to conduct the Clean Watersheds Needs Survey:  
        Provided further, That notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the limitation on the 
        amounts in a State water pollution control revolving fund that 
        may be used by a State to administer the fund shall not apply to 
        amounts included as principal in loans made

[[Page 138 STAT. 256]]

        by such fund in fiscal year 2024 and prior years where such 
        amounts represent costs of administering the fund to the extent 
        that such amounts are or were deemed reasonable by the 
        Administrator, accounted for separately from other assets in the 
        fund, and used for eligible purposes of the fund, including 
        administration:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Territories. District 
        of Columbia.>> That for fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding the 
        provisions of subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, grants made under title 
        II of such Act for American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Marianas, the United States Virgin Islands, and the 
        District of Columbia may also be made for the purpose of 
        providing assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding the provisions of such 
        subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section 
        518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds 
        reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act may also be used to 
        provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding any provision of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act and regulations issued pursuant 
        thereof, up to a total of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by 
        the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of such Act 
        may also be used for grants for training, technical assistance, 
        and educational programs relating to the operation and 
        management of the treatment works specified in section 518(c) of 
        such Act: <<NOTE: Oklahoma. Determination.>>   Provided further, 
        That for fiscal year 2024, funds reserved under section 518(c) 
        of such Act shall be available for grants only to Indian tribes, 
        as defined in section 518(h) of such Act and former Indian 
        reservations in Oklahoma (as determined by the Secretary of the 
        Interior) and Native Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203:  
        Provided further, That for fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding the 
        limitation on amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
        appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
        notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the 
        funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, for 
        State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
        1452(i) of such Acts:  Provided further, That 
        for <<NOTE: Territories.>>  fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding 
        the amounts specified in section 205(c) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent of the aggregate funds 
        appropriated for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund program 
        under the Act less any sums reserved under section 518(c) of the 
        Act, may be reserved by the Administrator for grants made under 
        title II of the Federal Water Pollution

[[Page 138 STAT. 257]]

        Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Marianas, and United States Virgin Islands:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding the 
        limitations on amounts specified in section 1452(j) of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of the funds appropriated 
        for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs under the 
        Safe Drinking Water Act may be reserved by the Administrator for 
        grants made under section 1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water 
        Act: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided further, That 10 
        percent of the funds made available under this title to each 
        State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants 
        and 14 percent of the funds made available under this title to 
        each State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
        capitalization grants shall be used by the State to provide 
        additional subsidy to eligible recipients in the form of 
        forgiveness of principal, negative interest loans, or grants (or 
        any combination of these), and shall be so used by the State 
        only where such funds are provided as initial financing for an 
        eligible recipient or to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt 
        obligations of eligible recipients only where such debt was 
        incurred on or after the date of enactment of this Act, or where 
        such debt was incurred prior to the date of enactment of this 
        Act if the State, with concurrence from the Administrator, 
        determines that such funds could be used to help address a 
        threat to public health from heightened exposure to lead in 
        drinking water or if a Federal or State emergency declaration 
        has been issued due to a threat to public health from heightened 
        exposure to lead in a municipal drinking water supply before the 
        date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That in a 
        State in which such an emergency declaration has been issued, 
        the State may use more than 14 percent of the funds made 
        available under this title to the State for Drinking Water State 
        Revolving Fund capitalization grants to provide additional 
        subsidy to eligible recipients:  Provided further, That 
        notwithstanding section 1452(o) of the Safe Drinking Water Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 300j-12(o)), the Administrator shall reserve up to 
        $12,000,000 of the amounts made available for fiscal year 2024 
        for making capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State 
        Revolving Funds to pay the costs of monitoring for unregulated 
        contaminants under section 1445(a)(2)(C) of such Act:  Provided 
        further, That of the unobligated balances available in the 
        ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'' account appropriated 
        prior to fiscal year 2012 for ``special project grants'' or 
        ``special needs infrastructure grants,'' or for the 
        administration, management, and oversight of such grants, 
        $1,500,000 are permanently rescinded:  Provided further, That no 
        amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
        the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
        concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
        Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That 
        the funds made available under this heading for Community 
        Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending grants in this 
        or prior appropriations Acts are not subject to compliance with 
        Federal procurement requirements for competition and methods of 
        procurement applicable to Federal financial assistance, if a 
        Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending 
        recipient has procured services or products through contracts

[[Page 138 STAT. 258]]

        entered into prior to the date of enactment of this legislation 
        that complied with state and/or local laws governing 
        competition;
            (2) $35,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, 
        planning, design, construction and related activities in 
        connection with the construction of high priority water and 
        wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
        Border, after consultation with the appropriate border 
        commission:  Provided, That no funds provided by this 
        appropriations Act to address the water, wastewater and other 
        critical infrastructure needs of the colonias in the United 
        States along the United States-Mexico border shall be made 
        available to a county or municipal government unless that 
        government has established an enforceable local ordinance, or 
        other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
        development or construction of any additional colonia areas, or 
        the development within an existing colonia the construction of 
        any new home, business, or other structure which lacks water, 
        wastewater, or other necessary infrastructure;
            (3) $39,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
        to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs of 
        rural and Alaska Native Villages: <<NOTE: Alaska.>>   Provided, 
        That of these funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a 
        match of 25 percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may 
        be used for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the 
        State of Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide 
        priority list established in conjunction with the Agency and the 
        U.S. Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, waste 
        disposal, and similar projects carried out by the State of 
        Alaska that are funded under section 221 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the Consolidated Farm 
        and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which shall 
        allocate not less than 25 percent of the funds provided for 
        projects in regional hub communities;
            (4) $98,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
        agreements, and associated program support costs:  Provided, 
        That at least <<NOTE: Allocations.>>  10 percent shall be 
        allocated for assistance in persistent poverty 
        counties: <<NOTE: Definition.>>   Provided further, That for 
        purposes of this section, the term ``persistent poverty 
        counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or more of 
        its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as 
        measured by the 1993 Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, 
        the 2000 decennial census, and the most recent Small Area Income 
        and Poverty Estimates, or any territory or possession of the 
        United States;
            (5) $90,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
        subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
            (6) $67,800,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions in the explanatory 
        statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
        division A of this consolidated Act);
            (7) $28,500,000 shall be for grants under subsections (a) 
        through (j) of section 1459A of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
        U.S.C. 300j-19a):  Provided, That for fiscal year 2024, funds

[[Page 138 STAT. 259]]

        provided under subsections (a) through (j) of such section of 
        such Act may be used--
                    (A) by a State to provide assistance to benefit one 
                or more owners of drinking water wells that are not 
                public water systems or connected to a public water 
                system for necessary and appropriate activities related 
                to a contaminant pursuant to subsection (j) of such 
                section of such Act; and
                    (B) to support a community described in subsection 
                (c)(2) of such section of such Act;
            (8) $28,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1464(d) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-24(d));
            (9) $22,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1459B of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19b);
            (10) $6,500,000 shall be for grants under section 1459A(l) 
        of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(l));
            (11) $25,500,000 shall be for grants under section 104(b)(8) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1254(b)(8));
            (12) $41,000,000 shall be for grants under section 221 of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301);
            (13) $5,400,000 shall be for grants under section 4304(b) of 
        the America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
        270);
            (14) $5,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 302(a) of 
        the Save Our Seas 2.0 Act (33 U.S.C. 4282(a)), of which not more 
        than 2 percent shall be for administrative costs to carry out 
        such section:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Oklahoma. Determination. Alaska.>> That 
        notwithstanding section 302(a) of such Act, the Administrator 
        may also provide grants pursuant to such authority to 
        intertribal consortia consistent with the requirements in 40 CFR 
        35.504(a), to former Indian reservations in Oklahoma (as 
        determined by the Secretary of the Interior), and Alaska Native 
        Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203;
            (15) $7,000,000 shall be for grants under section 103(b)(3) 
        of the Clean Air Act for wildfire smoke preparedness grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions in the explanatory 
        statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
        division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That not more 
        than 3 percent shall be for administrative costs to carry out 
        such section;
            (16) $38,693,000 shall be for State and Tribal Assistance 
        Grants to be allocated in the amounts specified for those 
        projects and for the purposes delineated in the table titled 
        ``Interior and Environment Incorporation of Community Project 
        Funding Items/Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included 
        for this division in the explanatory statement described in 
        section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
        consolidated Act) for remediation, construction, and related 
        environmental management activities in accordance with the terms 
        and conditions specified for such grants in the explanatory 
        statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
        division A of this consolidated Act);
            (17) $2,250,000 shall be for grants under section 1459F of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19g);
            (18) $4,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 2001 of 
        the America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law

[[Page 138 STAT. 260]]

        115-270, 42 U.S.C. 300j-3c note): <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   
        Provided, That the Administrator may award grants to and enter 
        into contracts with tribes, intertribal consortia, public or 
        private agencies, institutions, organizations, and individuals, 
        without regard to section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31 and 
        section 6101 of title 41, United States Code, and enter into 
        interagency agreements as appropriate;
            (19) $2,000,000 shall be for grants under section 50217(b) 
        of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1302f(b); Public Law 117-58);
            (20) $3,500,000 shall be for grants under section 124 of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1276); and
            (21) $1,106,333,000 shall be for grants, including 
        associated program support costs, to States, federally 
        recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
        air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single media 
        pollution prevention, control and abatement, and related 
        activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions set 
        forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making 
        grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate 
        matter monitoring and data collection activities subject to 
        terms and conditions specified by the Administrator, and under 
        section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016 to assist States 
        in developing and implementing programs for control of coal 
        combustion residuals, of which: $46,250,000 shall be for 
        carrying out section 128 of CERCLA; $9,500,000 shall be for 
        Environmental Information Exchange Network grants, including 
        associated program support costs; $1,475,000 shall be for grants 
        to States under section 2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal 
        Act, which shall be in addition to funds appropriated under the 
        heading ``Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program'' 
        to carry out the provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act 
        specified in section 9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other 
        than section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; 
        $18,512,000 of the funds available for grants under section 106 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act shall be for State 
        participation in national- and State-level statistical surveys 
        of water resources and enhancements to State monitoring 
        programs.

  Water <<NOTE: Loans.>> Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program 
Account

    For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans, 
as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014, $64,634,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$12,500,000,000:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be used solely for the cost of 
direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans for projects described 
in section 5026(9) of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation 
Act of 2014 to State infrastructure financing

[[Page 138 STAT. 261]]

authorities, as authorized by section 5033(e) of such Act:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Criteria.>>  use of direct loans or loan 
guarantee authority under this heading for direct loans or commitments 
to guarantee loans for any project shall be in accordance with the 
criteria published in the Federal Register on June 30, 2020 (85 FR 
39189) pursuant to the fourth proviso under the heading ``Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account'' in division D of 
the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94):  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification. Compliance.>> That none of the 
direct loans or loan guarantee authority made available under this 
heading shall be available for any project unless the Administrator and 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget have certified in 
advance in writing that the direct loan or loan guarantee, as 
applicable, and the project comply with the criteria referenced in the 
previous proviso:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Records.>> That, for the 
purposes of carrying out the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the 
Director of the Congressional Budget Office may request, and the 
Administrator shall promptly provide, documentation and information 
relating to a project identified in a Letter of Interest submitted to 
the Administrator pursuant to a Notice of Funding Availability for 
applications for credit assistance under the Water Infrastructure 
Finance and Innovation Act Program, including with respect to a project 
that was initiated or completed before the date of enactment of this 
Act.

    In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to sections 
5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014 shall be deposited in this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, $7,640,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Contracts. Native Americans.>> fiscal year 2024, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 6305(1), the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, in carrying out the Agency's function 
to implement directly Federal environmental programs required or 
authorized by law in the absence of an acceptable tribal program, may 
award cooperative agreements to federally recognized Indian tribes or 
Intertribal consortia, if authorized by their member tribes, to assist 
the Administrator in implementing Federal environmental programs for 
Indian tribes required or authorized by law, except that no such 
cooperative agreements may be awarded from funds designated for State 
financial assistance agreements.

    The Administrator <<NOTE: Fees.>>  of the Environmental Protection 
Agency is authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration 
service fees in accordance with section 33 of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w-8), to remain available 
until expended.

    Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Fees.>> section 33(d)(2) of the Federal 
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w-
8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may

[[Page 138 STAT. 262]]

assess fees under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 
2024.

    The <<NOTE: Fees.>> Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency is authorized to collect and obligate fees in accordance with 
section 3024 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g) for 
fiscal year 2024, to remain available until expended.

    The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to $368,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under 
the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' to the head of any 
Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement programs, projects, 
or activities; to enter into an interagency agreement with the head of 
such Federal department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions, and individuals for planning, research, monitoring, 
outreach, and implementation in furtherance of the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
    The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and Management, 
Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance Superfund, and Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are available for 
the construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $300,000 per project.
    For <<NOTE: Grants. Native Americans.>> fiscal year 2024, and 
notwithstanding section 518(f) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the Administrator is authorized to use the 
amounts appropriated for any fiscal year under section 319 of the Act to 
make grants to Indian tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e) of 
that Act.

    The <<NOTE: Grants.>> Administrator is authorized to use the amounts 
appropriated under the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' 
for fiscal year 2024 to provide grants to implement the Southeast New 
England Watershed Restoration Program.

    Notwithstanding the limitations on amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, not less than $2,500,000 of 
the funds made available under this title for the National Estuary 
Program shall be for making competitive awards described in section 
320(g)(4).
    For <<NOTE: Contracts.>> fiscal year 2024, the Office of Chemical 
Safety and Pollution Prevention and the Office of Water may, using funds 
appropriated under the headings ``Environmental Programs and 
Management'' and ``Science and Technology'', contract directly with 
individuals or indirectly with institutions or nonprofit organizations, 
without regard to 41 U.S.C. 5, for the temporary or intermittent 
personal services of students or recent graduates, who shall be 
considered employees for the purposes of chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, 
United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and work 
injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, relating to 
tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal employees for any 
other purpose:  Provided, That amounts used for this purpose by the 
Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention and the Office of 
Water collectively may not exceed $2,000,000.

    The <<NOTE: Records. Time 
periods. Certification. Plan. Reports.>> Environmental Protection agency 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate with copies of any available Department of 
Treasury quarterly certification of trust fund receipts collected from 
section 13601

[[Page 138 STAT. 263]]

of Public Law 117-169 and section 80201 of Public Law 117-58, an annual 
operating plan for such receipts showing amounts allocated by program 
area and program project, and quarterly reports for such receipts of 
obligated balances by program area and program project.






__________

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 264]]

                                TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

   office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $1,000,000:  Provided, That funds 
made available by this Act to any agency in the Natural Resources and 
Environment mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
up to one administrative support staff for the office.

                             Forest Service

                        forest service operations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, $1,150,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2027:  
Provided, That a portion of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be for the base salary and expenses of employees in the Chief's 
Office, the Work Environment and Performance Office, the Business 
Operations Deputy Area, and the Chief Financial Officer's Office to 
carry out administrative and general management support functions:  
Provided further, That funds provided under this heading shall be 
available for the costs of facility maintenance, repairs, and leases for 
buildings and sites where these administrative, general management and 
other Forest Service support functions take place; the costs of all 
utility and telecommunication expenses of the Forest Service, as well as 
business services; and, for information technology, including 
cybersecurity requirements:  Provided further, That funds provided under 
this heading may be used for necessary expenses to carry out 
administrative and general management support functions of the Forest 
Service not otherwise provided for and necessary for its operation.

                      forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $300,000,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2027:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $31,500,000 is for the 
forest inventory and analysis program:  Provided further, That all 
authorities for the use of funds, including the use of contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements, available to execute the Forest and 
Rangeland Research appropriation, are also available in the utilization 
of these funds for Fire Science Research.

                   state, private, and tribal forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, tribes, 
and others, and for forest health management, including

[[Page 138 STAT. 265]]

for invasive plants, and conducting an international program and trade 
compliance activities as authorized, $303,306,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2027, as authorized by law, of which $19,806,000 
shall be for projects specified for Forest Resource Information and 
Analysis in the table titled ``Interior and Environment Incorporation of 
Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed Spending 
Items'' included for this division in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act).

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization of the 
National Forest System, and for hazardous fuels management on or 
adjacent to such lands, $1,863,557,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2027:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $31,000,000 
shall be deposited in the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration 
Fund for ecological restoration treatments as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
7303(f): <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Provided further, That for the funds 
provided in the preceding proviso, section 4003(d)(3)(A) of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7303(d)(3)(A)) shall be 
applied by substituting ``20'' for ``10'' and section 4003(d)(3)(B) of 
the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7303(d)(3)(B)) 
shall be applied by substituting ``4'' for ``2'':  Provided further, 
That of the funds provided, $39,000,000 shall be for forest products:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $175,450,000 shall be for 
hazardous fuels management activities, of which not to exceed 
$30,000,000 may be used to make grants, using any authorities available 
to the Forest Service under the ``State, Private, and Tribal Forestry'' 
appropriation, for the purpose of creating incentives for increased use 
of biomass from National Forest System lands: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   
Provided further, That $20,000,000 may be used by the Secretary of 
Agriculture to enter into procurement contracts or cooperative 
agreements or to issue grants for hazardous fuels management activities, 
and for training or monitoring associated with such hazardous fuels 
management activities on Federal land, or on non-Federal land if the 
Secretary determines such activities benefit resources on Federal land:  
Provided further, That funds made available to implement the Community 
Forest Restoration Act, Public Law 106-393, title VI, shall be available 
for use on non-Federal lands in accordance with authorities made 
available to the Forest Service under the ``State, Private, and Tribal 
Forestry'' appropriation: <<NOTE: Fee. Advance approval. 43 USC 1751 
note.>>   Provided further, That notwithstanding section 33 of the 
Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of 
Agriculture, in calculating a fee for grazing on a National Grassland, 
may provide a credit of up to 50 percent of the calculated fee to a 
Grazing Association or direct permittee for a conservation practice 
approved by the Secretary in advance of the fiscal year in which the 
cost of the conservation practice is incurred, and that the amount 
credited shall remain available to the Grazing Association or the direct 
permittee, as appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is 
made and each fiscal year thereafter for use on the project for 
conservation practices approved by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That funds appropriated to this account shall be available for the base 
salary and expenses of employees that carry out the functions funded by 
the

[[Page 138 STAT. 266]]

``Capital Improvement and Maintenance'' account, the ``Range Betterment 
Fund'' account, and the ``Management of National Forest Lands for 
Subsistence Uses'' account.

                   capital improvement and maintenance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, $156,130,000, to remain available through September 30, 2027, for 
construction, capital improvement, maintenance, and acquisition of 
buildings and other facilities and infrastructure; for construction, 
reconstruction, and decommissioning of roads that are no longer needed, 
including unauthorized roads that are not part of the transportation 
system; and for maintenance of forest roads and trails by the Forest 
Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205:  
Provided, That $6,000,000 shall be for activities authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 538(a):  Provided further, That $5,130,000 shall be for projects 
specified for Construction Projects in the table titled ``Interior and 
Environment Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/
Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included for this division in 
the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided further, That 
funds becoming available in fiscal year 2024 under the Act of March 4, 
1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to the General Fund of the 
Treasury and shall not be available for transfer or obligation for any 
other purpose unless the funds are appropriated.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita 
National Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $664,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

             acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities, and for authorized 
expenditures from funds deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to 
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 
U.S.C. 484a), to remain available through September 30, 2027, (16 U.S.C. 
516-617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, Public Law 76-591; 
and Public Law 78-310).

                          range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, to remain available through September 30, 2027, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available

[[Page 138 STAT. 267]]

for administrative expenses associated with on-the-ground range 
rehabilitation, protection, and improvements.

     gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2027, to be derived from the fund 
established pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage Federal lands 
in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $1,099,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2027.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency wildland fire suppression on 
or adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection 
agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water, $2,312,654,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such funds, including unobligated balances 
under this heading, are available for repayment of advances from other 
appropriations accounts previously transferred for such purposes:  
Provided further, That any unobligated funds appropriated in a previous 
fiscal year for hazardous fuels management may be transferred to the 
``National Forest System'' account: <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>   Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to reimburse State and other 
cooperating entities for services provided in response to wildfire and 
other emergencies or disasters to the extent such reimbursements by the 
Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are fully repaid by the 
responsible emergency management agency:  Provided further, That funds 
provided shall be available for support to Federal emergency response:  
Provided further, That the costs of implementing any cooperative 
agreement between the Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may 
be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading in this Act and 
unobligated balances made available under this heading in prior Acts, 
other than amounts designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, shall be 
available, in addition to any other funds made available for such 
purpose, to continue uninterrupted the Federal wildland firefighter base 
salary increases provided under section 40803(d)(4)(B) of Public Law 
117-58:  Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, $1,011,000,000 shall be available for wildfire suppression 
operations, and is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

[[Page 138 STAT. 268]]

              wildfire suppression operations reserve fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    In addition to the amounts provided under the heading ``Department 
of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire Management'' for wildfire 
suppression operations, $2,300,000,000, to remain available until 
transferred, is additional new budget authority as specified for 
purposes of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided, That such amounts may be 
transferred to and merged with amounts made available under the headings 
``Department of the Interior--Department-Wide Programs--Wildland Fire 
Management'' and ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland 
Fire Management'' for wildfire suppression operations in the fiscal year 
in which such amounts are transferred:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notifications. Deadline.>> That amounts may be 
transferred to the ``Wildland Fire Management'' accounts in the 
Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture only upon 
the notification of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
that all wildfire suppression operations funds appropriated under that 
heading in this and prior appropriations Acts to the agency to which the 
funds will be transferred will be obligated within 30 days:  Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
law: <<NOTE: Determination. Deadline.>>   Provided further, That, in 
determining whether all wildfire suppression operations funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' in this and 
prior appropriations Acts to either the Department of Agriculture or the 
Department of the Interior will be obligated within 30 days pursuant to 
the preceding proviso, any funds transferred or permitted to be 
transferred pursuant to any other transfer authority provided by law 
shall be excluded.

                   communications site administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Amounts collected in this fiscal year pursuant to section 8705(f)(2) 
of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-334), shall 
be deposited in the special account established by section 8705(f)(1) of 
such Act, shall be available to cover the costs described in subsection 
(c)(3) of such section of such Act, and shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such amounts shall be transferred to the 
``National Forest System'' account.

                administrative provisions--forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; 
acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of 
such vehicles; purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and acquisition 
of aircraft to maintain the operable fleet for use in Forest Service 
wildland fire programs and other Forest Service programs; 
notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft being 
replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value

[[Page 138 STAT. 269]]

used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) 
services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National Forest 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost of 
uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt 
collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    Funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act may be 
transferred between accounts affected by the Forest Service budget 
restructure outlined in section 435 of division D of the Further 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94):  Provided, 
That any transfer of funds pursuant to this paragraph shall not increase 
or decrease the funds appropriated to any account in this fiscal year by 
more than ten percent:  Provided further, That such transfer authority 
is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
    Any <<NOTE: Notifications. Deadline.>> appropriations or funds 
available to the Forest Service may be transferred to the Wildland Fire 
Management appropriation for forest firefighting, emergency 
rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands or waters under its 
jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe burning conditions 
upon the Secretary of Agriculture's notification of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations that all fire suppression funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' will be 
obligated within 30 days:  Provided, That all funds used pursuant to 
this paragraph must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation which 
must be requested as promptly as possible.

    Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer to the Department 
of the Interior for wildland fire management, hazardous fuels 
management, and State fire assistance when such transfers would 
facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and projects.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Forest Service 
may transfer unobligated balances of discretionary funds appropriated to 
the Forest Service by this Act to or within the National Forest System 
Account, or reprogram funds to be used for the purposes of hazardous 
fuels management and urgent rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water:  Provided, That such transferred funds 
shall remain available through September 30, 
2027: <<NOTE: Notifications. Advance approvals. Contracts. Intergovern- 
mental relations.>>  Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred pursuant to this paragraph shall be available for obligation 
without written notification to and the prior approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

Contracts.
Intergovern
-
mental 
relations.

    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development in 
connection with forest and rangeland research, technical information, 
and assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with United States 
government, private sector, and international organizations:  Provided, 
That the Forest Service, acting for the International Program, may sign 
direct funding agreements

[[Page 138 STAT. 270]]

with foreign governments and institutions as well as other domestic 
agencies (including the U.S. Agency for International Development, the 
Department of State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), United 
States private sector firms, institutions and organizations to provide 
technical assistance and training programs on forestry and rangeland 
management:  Provided further, That to maximize effectiveness of 
domestic and international research and cooperation, the International 
Program may utilize all authorities related to forestry, research, and 
cooperative assistance regardless of program designations.
    Funds <<NOTE: Contracts.>> appropriated to the Forest Service shall 
be available to enter into a cooperative agreement with the section 
509(a)(3) Supporting Organization, ``Forest Service International 
Foundation'' to assist the Foundation in meeting administrative, 
project, and other expenses, and may provide for the Foundation's use of 
Forest Service personnel and facilities.

    Funds <<NOTE: Wild horses and burros.>> appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer to the Department 
of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, for removal, preparation, 
and adoption of excess wild horses and burros from National Forest 
System lands, and for the performance of cadastral surveys to designate 
the boundaries of such lands.

    None <<NOTE: 16 USC 556i.>>  of the funds made available to the 
Forest Service in this Act or any other Act with respect to any fiscal 
year shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), 
section 442 of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or section 10417(b) 
of Public Law 107-171 (7 U.S.C. 8316(b)).

    Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest Service 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the Department of 
Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 of funds available to the 
Forest Service shall be transferred to the Department of Agriculture for 
Department Reimbursable Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook 
charges: <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   Provided, That nothing in this paragraph 
shall prohibit or limit the use of reimbursable agreements requested by 
the Forest Service in order to obtain information technology services, 
including telecommunications and system modifications or enhancements, 
from the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture.

    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $5,000,000 shall 
be available for priority projects within the scope of the approved 
budget, which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps and 
shall be carried out under the authority of the Public Lands Corps Act 
of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.).
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is available to 
the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of the 
funds available to the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be advanced 
in a lump sum to the National Forest Foundation to aid conservation 
partnership projects in support of the Forest Service mission, without 
regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for projects on or 
benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service 
programs:  Provided, That of the Federal funds made available to the 
Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses:  Provided further, That the Foundation shall obtain, by the 
end of the period

[[Page 138 STAT. 271]]

of Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match funds 
made available by the Forest Service on at least a one-for-one basis:  
Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a 
Federal or a non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $3,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service may be advanced to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a lump sum to aid cost-share 
conservation projects, without regard to when expenses are incurred, on 
or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service 
programs:  Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at least a one-
for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-recipients:  Provided 
further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a Federal or 
non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient 
has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Any <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>> amounts made available to the 
Forest Service in this fiscal year, including available collections, may 
be used by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the 
Forest Service, to enter into Federal financial assistance grants and 
cooperative agreements to support forest or grassland collaboratives in 
the accomplishment of activities benefitting both the public and the 
National Forest System, Federal lands and adjacent non-Federal lands. 
Eligible activities are those that will improve or enhance Federal 
investments, resources, or lands, including for collaborative and 
collaboration-based activities, including but not limited to 
facilitation, planning, and implementing projects, technical assistance, 
administrative functions, operational support, participant costs, and 
other capacity support needs, as identified by the Forest Service. 
Eligible recipients <<NOTE: Native Americans. State and local 
governments. Nonprofits. Determination.>>  are Indian tribal entities 
(defined at 25 U.S.C. 5304(e)), state government, local governments, 
private and nonprofit entities, for-profit organizations, and 
educational institutions. The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
the Chief of the Forest Service, may enter into such cooperative 
agreements notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31 when the Secretary 
determines that the public interest will be benefited and that there 
exists a mutual interest other than monetary considerations. 
Transactions subject to Title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations shall 
be publicly advertised and require competition when required by such 
Title 2. For those transactions not subject to Title 2 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, the agency may require public advertising and 
competition when deemed appropriate. <<NOTE: Definition.>> The term 
``forest and grassland collaboratives'' means groups of individuals or 
entities with diverse interests participating in a cooperative process 
to share knowledge, ideas, and resources about the protection, 
restoration, or enhancement of natural and other resources on Federal 
and adjacent non-Federal lands, the improvement or maintenance of public 
access to Federal lands, or the reduction of risk to such lands caused 
by natural disasters.

    The 19th unnumbered paragraph under the heading ``Administrative 
Provisions, Forest Service'' in title III of Public Law 109-54, as 
amended, <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 538.>>  shall be further amended by striking 
``For each fiscal year through 2009'' and inserting ``For this fiscal 
year and each fiscal year thereafter'' and adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``Congress hereby ratifies and approves payments

[[Page 138 STAT. 272]]

by the Forest Service made in accordance with this paragraph to agency 
employees stationed in Puerto Rico after August 2, 2005.''.

    Funds <<NOTE: Urban and rural areas.>>  appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for interactions with and providing technical 
assistance to rural communities and natural resource-based businesses 
for sustainable rural development purposes.

    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to meet the 
non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of the Older Americans 
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
    The Forest Service shall not assess funds for the purpose of 
performing fire, administrative, and other facilities maintenance and 
decommissioning.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department of 
Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of OGC 
assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at meetings, 
training sessions, management reviews, land purchase negotiations, and 
similar matters unrelated to civil litigation:  Provided, That future 
budget justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the sums requested for transfer.
    An eligible individual who is employed in any project funded under 
title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and 
administered by the Forest Service shall be considered to be a Federal 
employee for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    The Forest Service may employ or contract with an individual who is 
enrolled in a training program at a longstanding Civilian Conservation 
Center (as defined in section 147(d) of the Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3197(d))) at regular rates of pay for 
necessary hours of work on National Forest System lands.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available to pay, 
from a single account, the base salary and expenses of employees who 
carry out functions funded by other accounts for Enterprise Program, 
Geospatial Technology and Applications Center, remnant Natural Resource 
Manager, Job Corps, and National Technology and Development Program.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                          Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$56,061,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, except as 
otherwise provided herein, which shall

[[Page 138 STAT. 273]]

be in addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that 
became available on October 1, 2023; in addition, $264,702,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025, for the Electronic Health 
Record System and the Indian Healthcare Improvement Fund, of which 
$74,138,000 is for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund and may be 
used, as needed, to carry out activities typically funded under the 
Indian Health Facilities account; and, in addition, $4,684,029,000, 
which shall become available on October 1, 2024, and remain available 
through September 30, 2026, except as otherwise provided herein; 
together with payments received during the fiscal year pursuant to 
sections 231(b) and 233 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
238(b) and 238b), for services furnished by the Indian Health Service:  
Provided, That funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations 
through contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of 
the grant or contract award and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided 
further, That from the amounts that become available on October 1, 2024, 
$2,500,000 shall be available for grants or contracts with public or 
private institutions to provide alcohol or drug treatment services to 
Indians, including alcohol detoxification services:  Provided further, 
That from the amounts that become available on October 1, 2024, 
$996,755,000 shall remain available until expended for Purchased/
Referred Care:  Provided further, That of the total amount specified in 
the preceding proviso for Purchased/Referred Care, $54,000,000 shall be 
for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund:  Provided further, 
That from the amounts that become available on October 1, 2024, up to 
$51,000,000 shall remain available until expended for implementation of 
the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act:  Provided further, That from the amounts that become 
available on October 1, 2024, $58,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for costs related to or resulting from accreditation 
emergencies, including supplementing activities funded under the heading 
``Indian Health Facilities'', of which up to $4,000,000 may be used to 
supplement amounts otherwise available for Purchased/Referred Care:  
Provided further, That the amounts collected by the Federal Government 
as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during the preceding fiscal 
year for breach of contracts shall be deposited in the Fund authorized 
by section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and shall remain 
available until expended and, notwithstanding section 108A(c) of that 
Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available to make new awards 
under the loan repayment and scholarship programs under sections 104 and 
108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Allocations.>> That the amounts made available within 
this account for the Substance Abuse and Suicide Prevention Program, for 
Opioid Prevention, Treatment and Recovery Services, for the Domestic 
Violence Prevention Program, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the 
housing subsidy authority for civilian employees, for Aftercare Pilot 
Programs at Youth Regional Treatment Centers, for transformation and 
modernization costs of the Indian Health Service Electronic Health 
Record system, for national quality and oversight activities, to improve 
collections from public and private

[[Page 138 STAT. 274]]

insurance at Indian Health Service and tribally operated facilities, for 
an initiative to treat or reduce the transmission of HIV and HCV, for a 
maternal health initiative, for the Telebehaviorial Health Center of 
Excellence, for Alzheimer's activities, for Village Built Clinics, for a 
produce prescription pilot, and for accreditation emergencies shall be 
allocated at the discretion of the Director of the Indian Health Service 
and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants. Time period. Records.>> That funds 
provided in this Act may be used for annual contracts and grants that 
fall within 2 fiscal years, provided the total obligation is recorded in 
the year the funds are appropriated:  Provided further, That the amounts 
collected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the 
authority of title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 
U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
achieving compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements of 
titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act, except for those 
related to the planning, design, or construction of new facilities:  
Provided further, That funding contained herein for scholarship programs 
under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>> amounts received by tribes and tribal 
organizations under title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall be reported and accounted for and available to the receiving 
tribes and tribal organizations until expended:  Provided further, That 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian Health Service, 
and from tribes and tribal organizations operating health facilities 
pursuant to Public Law 93-638, such individually identifiable health 
information relating to disabled children as may be necessary for the 
purpose of carrying out its functions under the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.):  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided that become available on October 1, 
2024, may be used for implementation of the Electronic Health Record 
System or the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Consultation. Time period.>> That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act, or any other Act, to the Indian Health Service 
for the Electronic Health Record system shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for the selection or implementation of a new 
Information Technology infrastructure system, unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
consulted 90 days in advance of such obligation.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract support 
costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act agreements with the Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2024, such 
sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for transfer to another budget account:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That amounts obligated but not 
expended by a tribe or tribal organization for contract support costs 
for such agreements for the current fiscal year shall be applied to 
contract support costs due for such agreements for subsequent fiscal 
years.

[[Page 138 STAT. 275]]

                       payments for tribal leases

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for leases pursuant 
to section 105(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5324(l)) for fiscal year 2024, such sums as 
may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, no amounts made available under this heading shall be available 
for transfer to another budget account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, demolition, improvement, and 
equipment of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters 
for personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination Act, 
and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses necessary 
to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities support 
activities of the Indian Health Service, $5,364,000, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available on October 1, 
2023; in addition, $306,329,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Sanitation Facilities Construction and Health Care Facilities 
Construction; and, in addition, $506,854,000, which shall become 
available on October 1, 2024, and remain available until expended:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for the planning, design, construction, renovation, or 
expansion of health facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or 
tribes may be used to purchase land on which such facilities will be 
located:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be used for 
fiscal year 2025 by the Indian Health Service to purchase TRANSAM 
equipment from the Department of Defense for distribution to the Indian 
Health Service and tribal facilities:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided that become available on October 1, 2024, may be used 
for Health Care Facilities Construction or for Sanitation Facilities 
Construction:  Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under 
this heading for fiscal year 2024 for Sanitation Facilities 
Construction, $17,023,000 shall be for projects specified for Sanitation 
Facilities Construction (CDS) in the table titled ``Interior and 
Environment Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/
Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' included for this division in 
the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be used 
for sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with grants 
by the housing programs of the United States Department of Housing and 
Urban Development.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

    Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service 
shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109

[[Page 138 STAT. 276]]

at rates not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate 
payable for senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; 
purchase of reprints; purchase, renovation, and erection of modular 
buildings and renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
and for expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the functions 
or activities of the Indian Health Service:  Provided, That in 
accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement 
Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care at all tribally 
administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, 
and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the account 
of the facility providing the service and shall be available without 
fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act and Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That funds appropriated to 
the Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for 
administrative and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to 
limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Assessments.>> That none of the funds made 
available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used for any 
assessments or charges by the Department of Health and Human Services 
unless such assessments or charges are identified in the budget 
justification and provided in this Act, or approved by the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations through the reprogramming process:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal organization 
through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title V 
of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 
(25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-
determination contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement 
under title V of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided 
further, That none <<NOTE: Regulations. Budget request.>>  of the funds 
made available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on September 
16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human Services, relating to 
the eligibility for the health care services of the Indian Health 
Service until the Indian Health Service has submitted a budget request 
reflecting the increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, 
and such request has been included in an appropriations Act and enacted 
into law: <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>   Provided further, That with 
respect to functions transferred by the Indian Health Service to tribes 
or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is authorized to 
provide goods and services to those entities on a reimbursable basis, 
including payments in advance with subsequent adjustment, and the 
reimbursements received therefrom, along with the funds received from 
those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act, may be 
credited to the same or subsequent appropriation account from which the 
funds were originally derived,

[[Page 138 STAT. 277]]

with such amounts to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That reimbursements <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>  for training, technical 
assistance, or services provided by the Indian Health Service will 
contain total costs, including direct, administrative, and overhead 
costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or technical 
assistance:  Provided further, That the Indian Health Service may 
provide to civilian medical personnel serving in hospitals operated by 
the Indian Health Service housing allowances equivalent to those that 
would be provided to members of the Commissioned Corps of the United 
States Public Health Service serving in similar positions at such 
hospitals:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the 
appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service may not be altered 
without advance notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                      National Institutes of Health

           national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section 311(a) 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, $79,714,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and section 
3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $81,619,000:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: Studies. Evaluations.>>  any other provision of 
law, in lieu of performing a health assessment under section 104(i)(6) 
of CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other appropriate 
health studies, evaluations, or activities, including, without 
limitation, biomedical testing, clinical evaluations, medical 
monitoring, and referral to accredited healthcare providers:  Provided 
further, That in performing any such health assessment or health study, 
evaluation, or activity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not be bound 
by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles 
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 2024, and 
existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                    Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the Council 
on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality pursuant to 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,

[[Page 138 STAT. 278]]

the Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization 
Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to exceed $750 for official reception and 
representation <<NOTE: Appointment.>> expenses, $4,629,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 202 of the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1970, the Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as 
chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the 
Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum rate 
payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $14,400,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Career positions.>>  That the Chemical Safety and 
Hazard Investigation Board (Board) shall have not more than three career 
Senior Executive Service positions: <<NOTE: 5 USC 415 note.>>   Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual 
appointed to the position of Inspector General of the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of such appointment, also hold 
the position of Inspector General of the Board: <<NOTE: 5 USC 415 
note.>>   Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Inspector General of the Board shall utilize personnel of the 
Office of Inspector General of EPA in performing the duties of the 
Inspector General of the Board, and shall not appoint any individuals to 
positions within the Board.

               Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $5,024,000, to remain 
available until expended, which shall be derived from unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations available under this heading:  
Provided, That funds provided in this or any other appropriations Act 
are to be used to relocate eligible individuals and groups including 
evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands residents, those in 
significantly substandard housing, and all others certified as eligible 
and not included in the preceding categories:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds contained in this or any other Act may be used by the 
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo 
or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled 
on the lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement 
home is provided for such household:  Provided further, That no 
relocatee will be provided with more than one new or replacement home:  
Provided further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 
93-531 (88 Stat. 1716).

[[Page 138 STAT. 279]]

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                               Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A of title XV of 
Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), $13,482,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 2024, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                         Smithsonian Institution

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as authorized 
by law, including research in the fields of art, science, and history; 
development, preservation, and documentation of the National 
Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease agreements of no 
more than 30 years, and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees, $892,855,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, 
except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed $28,000,000 
for the instrumentation program, collections acquisition, exhibition 
reinstallation, Smithsonian American Women's History Museum, National 
Museum of the American Latino, and the repatriation of skeletal remains 
program shall remain available until expended; and including such funds 
as may be necessary to support American overseas research 
centers: <<NOTE: Advance payments.>>   Provided, That funds appropriated 
herein are available for advance payments to independent contractors 
performing research services or participating in official Smithsonian 
presentations:  Provided further, <<NOTE: District of Columbia.>> That 
the Smithsonian Institution may expend Federal appropriations designated 
in this Act for lease or rent payments, as rent payable to the 
Smithsonian Institution, and such rent payments may be deposited into 
the general trust funds of the Institution to be available as trust 
funds for expenses associated with the purchase of a portion of the 
building at 600 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC, to the extent that 
federally supported activities will be housed there:  Provided further, 
That the use of such amounts in the general trust funds of the 
Institution for such purpose shall not be construed as Federal debt 
service for, a Federal guarantee of, a transfer of risk to, or an 
obligation of the Federal Government: <<NOTE: District of Columbia.>>   
Provided further, That no appropriated funds may be used directly to 
service debt which is incurred to finance the costs of acquiring a 
portion of the building at 600 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC, or 
of planning, designing, and constructing improvements to such building:  
Provided further, That any <<NOTE: Contracts. Effective date. Time 
period. Reports.>>  agreement entered into by the Smithsonian 
Institution for the sale of its ownership interest, or any portion 
thereof, in such building so acquired may not take effect until the 
expiration of a 30 day period which begins on the date on which the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian submits to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and Senate, the Committees on

[[Page 138 STAT. 280]]

House Administration and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate a report, as outlined in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public 
Law 116-94; 133 Stat. 2536) on the intended sale.

                           facilities capital

    For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract 
or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 
(63 Stat. 623), and for construction, including necessary personnel, 
$197,645,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         National Gallery of Art

                          salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, 76th Congress), including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the treasurer of 
the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art associations or 
societies whose publications or services are available to members only, 
or to members at a price lower than to the general public; purchase, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uniforms, or allowances 
therefor, for other employees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); 
purchase or rental of devices and services for protecting buildings and 
contents thereof, and maintenance, alteration, improvement, and repair 
of buildings, approaches, and grounds; and purchase of services for 
restoration and repair of works of art for the National Gallery of Art 
by contracts made, without advertising, with individuals, firms, or 
organizations at such rates or prices and under such terms and 
conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, $174,760,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025, of which not to exceed $3,875,000 
for the special exhibition program shall remain available until 
expended.

             repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration, and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, for operating lease agreements 
of no more than 10 years, that address space needs created by the 
ongoing renovations in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, 
$34,480,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of this 
amount, $24,574,000 shall be available for design and construction of an 
off-site art storage facility in partnership with the Smithsonian 
Institution and may be transferred to the Smithsonian Institution for 
such purposes:

[[Page 138 STAT. 281]]

 Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts.>> contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be negotiated 
with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of contractor 
qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance, and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, including rent of 
temporary office space in the District of Columbia during renovations of 
such Center, $32,293,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

                     capital repair and restoration

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts, $12,633,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the Woodrow 
Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of passenger 
vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $15,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                     National Endowment for the Arts

                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $207,000,000 shall be available to 
the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of projects and 
productions in the arts, including arts education and public outreach 
activities, through assistance to organizations and individuals pursuant 
to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for administering the 
functions of the Act, to remain available until expended.

                  National Endowment for the Humanities

                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $207,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $192,000,000 shall be available for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and 
for administering the functions of the Act; and $15,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
10(a)(2) of the Act, including

[[Page 138 STAT. 282]]

$13,000,000 for the purposes of section 7(h):  Provided, That 
appropriations for carrying out section 10(a)(2) shall be available for 
obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the total amounts of 
gifts, bequests, devises of money, and other property accepted by the 
chairman or by grantees of the National Endowment for the Humanities 
under the provisions of sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the 
current and preceding fiscal years for which equal amounts have not 
previously been appropriated.

                        Administrative Provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts may approve grants of up to $10,000, 
if in the aggregate the amount of such grants does not exceed 5 percent 
of the sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year:  Provided 
further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to the terms 
of an expressed and direct delegation of authority from the National 
Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                         Commission of Fine Arts

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 91 of 
title 40, United States Code, $3,661,000: <<NOTE: Fees.>>   Provided, 
That the Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs 
of its publications, and such fees shall be credited to this account as 
an offsetting collection, to remain available until expended without 
further appropriation:  Provided further, That the Commission is 
authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, artwork, drawings 
and artifacts, that pertain to the history and design of the Nation's 
Capital or the history and activities of the Commission of Fine Arts, 
for the purpose of artistic display, study, or education:  Provided 
further, That one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided under this 
heading may be used for official reception and representation expenses.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 U.S.C. 
956a), $5,000,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability. 20 USC 956a 
note.>> That the item relating to ``National Capital Arts and Cultural 
Affairs'' in the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1986, as enacted into law by section 101(d) of 
Public Law 99-190 (20 U.S.C. 956a), shall be applied in fiscal year 2024 
in the second paragraph by inserting ``, calendar year 2020 excluded'' 
before the first period:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination. Time 
periods. 20 USC 956a note.>> That in determining an eligible 
organization's annual income for calendar years 2021, 2022, and 2023, 
funds or grants received by the eligible organization from any 
supplemental appropriations made available in 2020 and 2021

[[Page 138 STAT. 283]]

in connection with the public health emergency declared by the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services on January 31, 2020 (including renewals 
thereof) shall be counted as part of the eligible organization's annual 
income.

                Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $8,585,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning Commission 
under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $8,750,000:  Provided, That one-quarter of 
1 percent of the funds provided under this heading may be used for 
official reception and representational expenses associated with hosting 
international visitors engaged in the planning and physical development 
of world capitals.

                 United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                        holocaust memorial museum

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as authorized by 
Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), $65,231,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2026, for the 
Museum's equipment replacement program; and of which $4,000,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the 
Museum's outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
expended.

                             Presidio Trust

    The Presidio Trust is authorized to issue obligations to the 
Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 104(d)(3) of the Omnibus 
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333), in 
an amount not to exceed $90,000,000.

               United States Semiquincentennial Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Semiquincentennial 
Commission to plan and coordinate observances and activities associated 
with the 250th anniversary of the founding of the United States, as 
authorized by Public Law 116-282, the technical amendments to Public Law 
114-196, $15,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025.

[[Page 138 STAT. 284]]

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

                       restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition 
to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is not 
complete other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described 
in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

                      obligation of appropriations

    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                  disclosure of administrative expenses

    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Estimates. Approval.>> The amount and basis of 
estimated overhead charges, deductions, reserves, or holdbacks, 
including working capital fund charges, from programs, projects, 
activities and subactivities to support government-wide, departmental, 
agency, or bureau administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or 
central operations shall be presented in annual budget justifications 
and subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates shall be 
presented to the Committees on Appropriations for approval.

mining applications <<NOTE: Patents and trademarks.>> 

    Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.-- <<NOTE: Determination. Claims.>> Subsection (a) 
shall not apply if the Secretary of the Interior determines that, for 
the claim concerned: (1) a patent application was filed with the 
Secretary on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all requirements 
established under sections 2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 
U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode claims, sections 2329, 2330, 2331, 
and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer 
claims, and section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill 
site claims, as the case may be, were fully complied with by the 
applicant by that date.

    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2025, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on actions taken by 
the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997 (Public Law 104-208).

[[Page 138 STAT. 285]]

    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the 
mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as set 
forth in <<NOTE: Payment. Contracts.>>  subsection (b). The Bureau of 
Land Management shall have the sole responsibility to choose and pay the 
third-party contractor in accordance with the standard procedures 
employed by the Bureau of Land Management in the retention of third-
party contractors.

              contract support costs, prior year limitation

    Sec. 405. <<NOTE: Continuation.>> Sections 405 and 406 of division F 
of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 
(Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2024.

           contract support costs, fiscal year 2024 limitation

    Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2024 under 
the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health 
Service, Contract Support Costs'' and ``Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, Contract 
Support Costs'' are the only amounts available for contract support 
costs arising out of self-determination or self-governance contracts, 
grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2024 with 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Indian Education, and the Indian 
Health Service:  Provided, That such amounts provided by this Act are 
not available for payment of claims for contract support costs for prior 
years, or for repayments of payments for settlements or judgments 
awarding contract support costs for prior years.

                         forest management plans

    Sec. 407. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1604 note.>> The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall not be considered to be in violation of section 6(f)(5)(A) of the 
Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(f)(5)(A)) solely because more than 15 years have passed without 
revision of the plan for a unit of the National Forest System. Nothing 
in this section exempts the Secretary from any other requirement of the 
Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et 
seq.) or any other law: <<NOTE: Courts.>>   Provided, That if the 
Secretary is not acting expeditiously and in good faith, within the 
funding available, to revise a plan for a unit of the National Forest 
System, this section shall be void with respect to such plan and a court 
of proper jurisdiction may order completion of the plan on an 
accelerated basis.

                  prohibition within national monuments

    Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to conduct 
preleasing, leasing and related activities under either the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a National 
Monument established pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 
et seq.) as such boundary

[[Page 138 STAT. 286]]

existed on January 20, 2001, except where such activities are allowed 
under the Presidential proclamation establishing such monument.

                          limitation on takings

    Sec. 409. <<NOTE: Approvals.>> Unless otherwise provided herein, no 
funds appropriated in this Act for the acquisition of lands or interests 
in lands may be expended for the filing of declarations of taking or 
complaints in condemnation without the approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That this provision shall not 
apply to funds appropriated to implement the Everglades National Park 
Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds appropriated for 
Federal assistance to the State of Florida to acquire lands for 
Everglades restoration purposes.

                     prohibition on no-bid contracts

    Sec. 410.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be used to enter 
into any Federal contract unless such contract is entered into in 
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United 
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless--
            (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
        entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
        formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
        tribes;
            (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, 
        25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
        specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
        defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(e)); or
            (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of enactment 
        of this Act.

                           posting of reports

    Sec. 411. <<NOTE: Public information. Web 
posting. Determination.>> (a) Any agency receiving funds made available 
in this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the 
public website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of 
the agency that it shall serve the national interest.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.

    (c) The <<NOTE: Time period.>>  head of the agency posting such 
report shall do so only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

    Sec. 412.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or American 
        Jazz Masters Fellowship.

[[Page 138 STAT. 287]]

            (2) <<NOTE: Procedures.>> The Chairperson shall establish 
        procedures to ensure that no funding provided through a grant, 
        except a grant made to a State or local arts agency, or regional 
        group, may be used to make a grant to any other organization or 
        individual to conduct activity independent of the direct grant 
        recipient. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments 
        made in exchange for goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

    Sec. 413. (a) In providing services or awarding financial assistance 
under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 
from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income below 
        the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.

    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) <<NOTE: Grants.>> With funds appropriated by this Act to carry 
out section 5 of the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act 
of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Chairperson shall report to the 
        Congress annually and by State, on grants awarded by the 
        Chairperson in each grant category under section 5 of such Act; 
        and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

[[Page 138 STAT. 288]]

                  status of balances of appropriations

    Sec. 414. <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Department of the Interior, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian 
Health Service shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the status of 
balances of appropriations including all uncommitted, committed, and 
unobligated funds in each program and activity within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act.

                      extension of grazing permits

    Sec. 415.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public Law 
108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits issued by the Forest 
Service on any lands not subject to administration under section 402 of 
the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), shall 
remain in effect for fiscal year 2024.

                           funding prohibition

    Sec. 416. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network is designed to block access to pornography 
websites.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.

                humane transfer and treatment of animals

    Sec. 417. <<NOTE: Wild horses and burros.>> (a) Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
land administered by the Bureau of Land Management, or the Secretary of 
Agriculture, with respect to land administered by the Forest Service 
(referred to in this section as the ``Secretary concerned''), may 
transfer excess wild horses and burros that have been removed from land 
administered by the Secretary concerned to other Federal, State, and 
local government agencies for use as work animals.

    (b) The Secretary concerned may make a transfer under subsection (a) 
immediately on the request of a Federal, State, or local government 
agency.
    (c) An excess wild horse or burro transferred under subsection (a) 
shall lose status as a wild free-roaming horse or burro (as defined in 
section 2 of Public Law 92-195 (commonly known as the ``Wild Free-
Roaming Horses and Burros Act'') (16 U.S.C. 1332)).
    (d) A Federal, State, or local government agency receiving an excess 
wild horse or burro pursuant to subsection (a) shall not--
            (1) destroy the horse or burro in a manner that results in 
        the destruction of the horse or burro into a commercial product;
            (2) sell or otherwise transfer the horse or burro in a 
        manner that results in the destruction of the horse or burro for 
        processing into a commercial product; or
            (3) euthanize the horse or burro, except on the 
        recommendation of a licensed veterinarian in a case of severe 
        injury, illness, or advanced age.

    (e) Amounts appropriated by this Act shall not be available for--

[[Page 138 STAT. 289]]

            (1) the destruction of any healthy, unadopted, and wild 
        horse or burro under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned 
        (including a contractor); or
            (2) the sale of a wild horse or burro that results in the 
        destruction of the wild horse or burro for processing into a 
        commercial product.

   forest service facility realignment and enhancement authorization 
                                extension

    Sec. 418. <<NOTE: Applicability. 16 USC 580d note.>> Section 503(f) 
of Public Law 109-54 (16 U.S.C. 580d note) shall be applied by 
substituting ``September 30, 2024'' for ``September 30, 2019''.

                     use of american iron and steel

    Sec. 419. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a State water 
pollution control revolving fund as authorized by section 1452 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) shall be used for a project 
for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public 
water system or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.
    (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  In this section, the term ``iron and 
steel'' products means the following products made primarily of iron or 
steel: lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other 
municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and 
restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and 
construction materials.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in 
this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.

    (c) <<NOTE: Waiver. Public information. Records. Time period.>> If 
the Administrator receives a request for a waiver under this section, 
the Administrator shall make available to the public on an informal 
basis a copy of the request and information available to the 
Administrator concerning the request, and shall allow for informal 
public input on the request for at least 15 days prior to making a 
finding based on the request. <<NOTE: Web posting.>>  The Administrator 
shall make the request and accompanying information available by 
electronic means, including on the official public Internet Web site of 
the Environmental Protection Agency.

    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with United States obligations under international 
agreements.

    (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions described in subsection 
(a)(1) for management and oversight of the requirements of this section.

[[Page 138 STAT. 290]]

 local cooperator training agreements and transfers of excess equipment 
                       and supplies for wildfires

    Sec. 420. <<NOTE: Grants.>> The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to enter into grants and cooperative agreements with 
volunteer fire departments, rural fire departments, rangeland fire 
protection associations, and similar organizations to provide for 
wildland fire training and equipment, including supplies and 
communication devices. Notwithstanding section 121(c) of title 40, 
United States Code, or section 521 of title 40, United States Code, the 
Secretary is further authorized to transfer title to excess Department 
of the Interior firefighting equipment no longer needed to carry out the 
functions of the Department's wildland fire management program to such 
organizations.

                             recreation fees

    Sec. 421. <<NOTE: Applicability. 16 USC 6809 note.>> Section 810 of 
the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be 
applied by substituting ``October 1, 2025'' for ``September 30, 2019''.

                        reprogramming guidelines

    Sec. 422. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>> None of the funds made 
available in this Act, in this and prior fiscal years, may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the reprogramming 
procedures contained in the explanatory statement described in section 4 
(in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

                            local contractors

    Sec. 423. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 412 of division E of 
Public Law 112-74 shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 2024'' 
for ``fiscal year 2019''.

       shasta-trinity marina fee authority authorization extension

    Sec. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  424.  Section 422 of division F of 
Public Law 110-161 (121 Stat 1844), as amended, shall be applied by 
substituting ``fiscal year 2024'' for ``fiscal year 2019''.

            interpretive association authorization extension

    Sec. 425. <<NOTE: Applicability. 16 USC 565a-1 note.>> Section 426 
of division G of Public Law 113-76 (16 U.S.C. 565a-1 note) shall be 
applied by substituting ``September 30, 2024'' for ``September 30, 
2019''.

    forest botanical products fee collection authorization extension

    Sec. 426. <<NOTE: Applicability. 16 USC 528 note.>> Section 339 of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-113; 16 U.S.C. 528 note), as 
amended by section 335(6) of Public Law 108-108 and section 432 of 
Public Law 113-76, shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 2024'' 
for ``fiscal year 2019''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 291]]

                              chaco canyon

    Sec. 427.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to accept a nomination for oil and gas leasing under 43 CFR 3120.3 et 
seq., or to offer for oil and gas leasing, any Federal lands within the 
withdrawal area identified on the map of the Chaco Culture National 
Historical Park prepared by the Bureau of Land Management and dated 
April 2, 2019, prior to the completion of the cultural resources 
investigation identified in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 in the matter preceding division A of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260).

                              tribal leases

    Sec. 428. (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, in the case of any lease under section 105(l) of the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
5324(l)), the initial lease term shall commence no earlier than the date 
of receipt of the lease proposal.

    (b) <<NOTE: Consultation.>> The Secretaries of the Interior and 
Health and Human Services shall, jointly or separately, during fiscal 
year 2024 consult with tribes and tribal organizations through public 
solicitation and other means regarding the requirements for leases under 
section 105(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act (25 U.S.C. 5324(l)) on how to implement a consistent and transparent 
process for the payment of such leases.

                forest ecosystem health and recovery fund

    Sec. 429. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The authority provided under the 
heading ``Forest Ecosystem Health and Recovery Fund'' in title I of 
Public Law 111-88, as amended by section 117 of division F of Public Law 
113-235, shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 2024'' for 
``fiscal year 2020'' each place it appears.

     allocation of projects, national parks and public land legacy 
          restoration fund and land and water conservation fund

    Sec. 430. (a)(1) <<NOTE: Deadlines. 54 USC 200303 note.>> Within 45 
days of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
allocate amounts made available from the National Parks and Public Land 
Legacy Restoration Fund for fiscal year 2024 pursuant to subsection (c) 
of section 200402 of title 54, United States Code, and as provided in 
subsection (e) of such section of such title, to the agencies of the 
Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture specified, 
in the amounts specified, for the stations and unit names specified, and 
for the projects and activities specified in the table titled 
``Allocation of Funds: National Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration 
Fund Fiscal Year 2024'' in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

    (2) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate, shall 
allocate amounts made available for expenditure from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund for fiscal year 2024 pursuant to subsection (a) of 
section 200303 of title 54, United States Code,

[[Page 138 STAT. 292]]

to the agencies and accounts specified, in the amounts specified, and 
for the projects and activities specified in the table titled 
``Allocation of Funds: Land and Water Conservation Fund Fiscal Year 
2024'' in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).
    (b) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this section, 
neither the President nor his designee may allocate any amounts that are 
made available for any fiscal year under subsection (c) of section 
200402 of title 54, United States Code, or subsection (a) of section 
200303 of title 54, United States Code, other than in amounts and for 
projects and activities that are allocated by subsections (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) of this section:  Provided, That in any fiscal year, the matter 
preceding this proviso shall not apply to the allocation of amounts for 
continuing administration of programs allocated funds from the National 
Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund or the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, which may be allocated only in amounts that are no 
more than the allocation for such purposes in subsections (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (c) <<NOTE: Reallocation. Requirements.>> The Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may reallocate amounts from 
each agency's ``Contingency Fund'' line in the table titled ``Allocation 
of Funds: National Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund Fiscal 
Year 2024'' to any project funded by the National Parks and Public Land 
Legacy Restoration Fund within the same agency, from any fiscal year, 
that experienced a funding deficiency due to unforeseen cost overruns, 
in accordance with the following requirements:
            (1) ``Contingency Fund'' amounts may only be reallocated if 
        there is a risk to project completion resulting from unforeseen 
        cost overruns;
            (2) ``Contingency Fund'' amounts may only be reallocated for 
        cost of adjustments and changes within the original scope of 
        effort for projects funded by the National Parks and Public Land 
        Legacy Restoration Fund; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Secretary of the Interior or 
        the Secretary of Agriculture must provide written notification 
        to the Committees on Appropriations 30 days before taking any 
        actions authorized by this subsection if the amount reallocated 
        from the ``Contingency Fund'' line for a project is projected to 
        be 10 percent or greater than the following, as applicable:
                    (A) The amount allocated to that project in the 
                table titled ``Allocation of Funds: National Parks and 
                Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund Fiscal Year 2024'' 
                in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in 
                the matter preceding division A of this consolidated 
                Act); or
                    (B) The initial estimate in the most recent report 
                submitted, prior to enactment of this Act, to the 
                Committees on Appropriations pursuant to section 431(e) 
                of division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
                2023 (Public Law 117-328).

    (d)(1) <<NOTE: Data sheets.>> Concurrent with the annual budget 
submission of the President for fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall each submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate project data sheets for the projects in the ``Submission of 
Annual List of Projects to Congress'' required by section 200402(h) of 
title 54, United States Code:  Provided, That the ``Submission of Annual

[[Page 138 STAT. 293]]

List of Projects to Congress'' must include a ``Contingency Fund'' line 
for each agency within the allocations defined in subsection (e) of 
section 200402 of title 54, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reallocation.>> in the event amounts allocated by this Act 
or any prior Act for the National Parks and Public Land Legacy 
Restoration Fund are no longer needed to complete a specified project, 
such amounts may be reallocated in such submission to that agency's 
``Contingency Fund'' line:  Provided further, That any proposals to 
change the scope of or terminate a previously approved project must be 
clearly identified in such submission.

    (2)(A) <<NOTE: Lists.>> Concurrent with the annual budget submission 
of the President for fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of the Interior and 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall each submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a list of 
supplementary allocations for Federal land acquisition and Forest Legacy 
Projects at the National Park Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the U.S. Forest Service that 
are in addition to the ``Submission of Cost Estimates'' required by 
section 200303(c)(1) of title 54, United States Code, that are 
prioritized and detailed by account, program, and project, and that 
total no less than half the full amount allocated to each account for 
that land management Agency under the allocations submitted under 
section 200303(c)(1) of title 54, United States Code:  Provided, That in 
the event amounts allocated by this Act or any prior Act pursuant to 
subsection (a) of section 200303 of title 54, United States Code are no 
longer needed because a project has been completed or can no longer be 
executed, such amounts must be clearly identified if proposed for 
reallocation in the annual budget submission.

    (B) The Federal land acquisition and Forest Legacy projects in the 
``Submission of Cost Estimates'' required by section 200303(c)(1) of 
title 54, United States Code, and on the list of supplementary 
allocations required by subparagraph (A) shall be comprised only of 
projects for which a willing seller has been identified and for which an 
appraisal or market research has been initiated.
    (C) Concurrent with the annual budget submission of the President 
for fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall each submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate project data sheets in the same 
format and containing the same level of detailed information that is 
found on such sheets in the Budget Justifications annually submitted by 
the Department of the Interior with the President's Budget for the 
projects in the ``Submission of Cost Estimates'' required by section 
200303(c)(1) of title 54, United States Code, and in the same format and 
containing the same level of detailed information that is found on such 
sheets submitted to the Committees pursuant to section 427 of division D 
of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94) 
for the list of supplementary allocations required by subparagraph (A).
    (e) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Department of the Interior and the 
Department of Agriculture shall provide the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the 
status of balances of projects and activities funded by the National 
Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund for amounts allocated 
pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section and the status of

[[Page 138 STAT. 294]]

balances of projects and activities funded by the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund for amounts allocated pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of 
this section, including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated 
funds, and, for amounts allocated pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this 
section, National Parks and Public Land Legacy Restoration Fund amounts 
reallocated pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.

                   policies relating to biomass energy

    Sec. 431.  To support the key role that forests in the United States 
can play in addressing the energy needs of the United States, the 
Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, consistent with their 
missions, jointly--
            (1) ensure that Federal policy relating to forest 
        bioenergy--
                    (A) is consistent across all Federal departments and 
                agencies; and
                    (B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of 
                forest biomass for energy, conservation, and responsible 
                forest management; and
            (2) establish clear and simple policies for the use of 
        forest biomass as an energy solution, including policies that--
                    (A) reflect the carbon neutrality of forest 
                bioenergy and recognize biomass as a renewable energy 
                source, provided the use of forest biomass for energy 
                production does not cause conversion of forests to non-
                forest use;
                    (B) encourage private investment throughout the 
                forest biomass supply chain, including in--
                          (i) working forests;
                          (ii) harvesting operations;
                          (iii) forest improvement operations;
                          (iv) forest bioenergy production;
                          (v) wood products manufacturing; or
                          (vi) paper manufacturing;
                    (C) encourage forest management to improve forest 
                health; and
                    (D) recognize State initiatives to produce and use 
                forest biomass.

                        small remote incinerators

    Sec. 432. <<NOTE: Regulations. Alaska.>> None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to implement or enforce the regulation 
issued on March 21, 2011 at 40 CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD with 
respect to units in the State of Alaska that are defined as ``small, 
remote incinerator'' units in those regulations and, until a subsequent 
regulation is issued, the Administrator shall implement the law and 
regulations in effect prior to such date.

                        timber sale requirements

    Sec. 433. <<NOTE: Alaska.>> No timber sale in Alaska's Region 10 
shall be advertised if the indicated rate is deficit (defined as the 
value of the timber is not sufficient to cover all logging and stumpage 
costs and provide a normal profit and risk allowance under the Forest 
Service's appraisal process) when appraised using a residual value 
appraisal. The western red cedar timber from those sales which

[[Page 138 STAT. 295]]

is surplus to the needs of the domestic processors in Alaska, shall be 
made available to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 United States 
at prevailing domestic prices. All additional western red cedar volume 
not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 United States domestic processors 
may be exported to foreign markets at the election of the timber sale 
holder. All Alaska yellow cedar may be sold at prevailing export prices 
at the election of the timber sale holder.

 transfer authority to federal highway administration for the national 
              parks and public land legacy restoration fund

    Sec. 434.  Funds made available or allocated in this Act to the 
Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture that are 
subject to the allocations and limitations in 54 U.S.C. 200402(e) and 
prohibitions in 54 U.S.C. 200402(f) may be further allocated or 
reallocated to the Federal Highway Administration for transportation 
projects of the covered agencies defined in 54 U.S.C. 200401(2).

                       prohibition on use of funds

    Sec. 435.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this Act or any other Act may be used to 
promulgate or implement any regulation requiring the issuance of permits 
under title V of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.) for carbon 
dioxide, nitrous oxide, water vapor, or methane emissions resulting from 
biological processes associated with livestock production.

                  greenhouse gas reporting restrictions

    Sec. 436.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this or any other Act may be used to implement 
any provision in a rule, if that provision requires mandatory reporting 
of greenhouse gas emissions from manure management systems.

                           funding prohibition

    Sec. 437.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to regulate the lead content of ammunition, ammunition 
components, or fishing tackle under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.

                           firefighter pay cap

    Sec. 438.  Section 1701 of division B of the Extending Government 
Funding and Delivering Emergency Assistance Act (5 U.S.C. 5547 note), as 
amended by Public Law 117-103, <<NOTE: 136 Stat. 1116.>>  is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking the last sentence and 
        inserting ``Any Services during a given calendar year that 
        generate payments payable in the subsequent calendar year shall 
        be disregarded in applying this subsection''; and
            (2) in subsections (a), (b), and (c) by inserting ``or 
        2024'' after ``or 2023'' each place it appears.

[[Page 138 STAT. 296]]

                          technical correction

    Sec. 439.  In the table entitled ``Interior and Environment 
Incorporation of Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally 
Directed Spending Items'' in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 in the matter preceding division A of Public Law 117-328 and 
in the table under the heading ``Disclosure of Earmarks and 
Congressionally Directed Spending Items'' in such explanatory statement, 
the project relating to ``Historic Campbell Chapel Restoration Committee 
for the Restoration of Historic Campbell Chapel'' is deemed to be 
amended by striking ``Historic Preservation Fund--Save America's 
Treasures Grants'' and inserting ``Historic Preservation Fund--Historic 
Preservation Fund Grants''.

     alaska native regional health entities authorization extension

    Sec. 440. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 424(a) of title IV of 
division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-
76) shall be applied by substituting ``October 1, 2024'' for ``December 
24, 2022''.

                         lava ridge wind project

    Sec. 441. <<NOTE: Analysis. Consultation.>> (a) None of the funds 
made available by this Act may be obligated or expended for the purpose 
of granting, issuing, or renewing a right-of-way under section 501 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1761) for 
the Lava Ridge Wind Project, unless or until the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, has analyzed, in 
consultation with local elected officials and stakeholders, action 
alternatives designed to reduce impacts to wildlife, cultural resources, 
transportation, hunting, wetlands and the connected surface and ground 
waters. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Secretary shall complete such 
consultations, and seek feedback regarding action alternatives, not 
later than September 30, 2024, and no funds made available in this Act 
shall be used for granting, issuing, or renewing a right-of-way under 
section 501 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1761) for the Lava Ridge Wind Project while such consultations 
and efforts are ongoing.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports. Briefing.>> Prior to granting, issuing, or 
renewing a right-of-way under section 501 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1761) for the Lava Ridge Wind Project, 
the Secretary shall periodically report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on the status of consultations required 
under subsection (a) and, once such consultations are complete, provide 
a briefing to the Committees on the action alternatives and the feedback 
of local elected officials and stakeholders.

                               limitation

    Sec. 442. <<NOTE: Claims. Determination.>> If requested by the 
claimant of any mining claim located within the area covered by Public 
Land Order 7921, the Bureau of Land Management shall prioritize 
completion of a validity determination for such 
claim. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Bureau of Land Management shall strive to 
complete any such validity determination not later than 3 years of 
receipt of the request.

[[Page 138 STAT. 297]]

                         good neighbor authority

    Sec. 443.  Section 8206 of the Agriculture Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 
2113a), as amended by section 8624 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 
2018 (Public Law 115-334) and the Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2023 
(Public Law 117-328), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)(A), by adding before the period: 
        ``; or''
                          ``(iii) National Park System land; or
                          ``(iv) National Wildlife Refuge Land'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(4)(B)(i), by striking ``or'' after 
        ``National Forest System'' and inserting ``,'';
            (3) in subsection (a)(4)(B)(i), by inserting ``, National 
        Park Service, or National Wildlife Refuge'' after ``Bureau of 
        Land Management'';
            (4) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(ii), by striking ``2023'' and 
        inserting ``2024'';
            (5) in subsection (b)(4) by striking ``land or'' and 
        inserting ``,''; and
            (6) in subsection (b)(4) by inserting ``, National Park 
        System, or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service'' after ``Bureau of 
        Land Management''.

                forest service nonrecurring expense fund

    Sec. 444. <<NOTE: 16 USC 579f.>> There is hereby established in the 
Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ``Forest Service 
Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'' (the Fund):  Provided, That unobligated 
balances of expired discretionary funds, and discretionary no-year funds 
at least four years old and deemed by the Chief of the Forest Service no 
longer needed for their intended purpose, appropriated for this or any 
succeeding fiscal year from the general fund of the Treasury to the 
Forest Service by this or any other Act may be transferred into the 
Fund:  Provided further, That amounts deposited in the Fund shall be 
available until expended, and in addition to such other funds as may be 
available, for information technology; administrative expenses such as, 
but not limited to, utility and lease payments; facilities 
infrastructure maintenance, improvements, and construction; and roads 
infrastructure maintenance, subject to approval by the Office of 
Management and Budget:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notifications. Advance 
approvals.>> That amounts in the Fund may not be obligated without 
written notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
conformance with the reprogramming guidelines described in this Act.

                    world war i centennial commission

    Sec. 445.  In addition to the authority provided by section 6(g) of 
the World War I Centennial Commission Act, as authorized by the World 
War I Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), the World War I Commission may 
accept money, in-kind personnel services, contractual support, or any 
appropriate support from any executive branch agency for activities of 
the Commission.

[[Page 138 STAT. 298]]

                               rescission

    Sec. 446.  Of the unobligated balances from discretionary amounts 
made available for fiscal year 2020 or prior fiscal years and derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the following are hereby 
permanently rescinded--
            (1) $89,000,000 from National Park Service grant programs 
        with unobligated carryover balances; and
            (2) $5,000,000 from the Bureau of Land Management:

  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               rescission

    Sec. 447.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
by section 11001 of Public Law 117-2, $350,000,000 are hereby 
permanently rescinded.

                               rescission

    Sec. 448.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
for fiscal year 2023 or prior fiscal years under the heading 
``Department of Health and Human Services--Indian Health Service--Indian 
Health Services'' for costs related to or resulting from accreditation 
emergencies, $90,000,000 are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    This division may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024''.



__________

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 299]]

DIVISION F-- <<NOTE: Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024.>> TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024

TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2024.>>  
I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Office of the Secretary

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $191,295,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That of the 
sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $3,770,000 shall be available for the immediate Office 
        of the Secretary;
            (2) $1,370,000 shall be available for the immediate Office 
        of the Deputy Secretary;
            (3) $32,272,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        General Counsel;
            (4) $20,064,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, of which 
        $2,000,000 is for the Office for Multimodal Freight 
        Infrastructure and Policy:  Provided, That the Secretary must 
        obtain reprogramming approval from the House and Senate 
        Committees on Appropriations under section 405 of this Act prior 
        to executing the authorities of section 118(g)(2)-(3) of title 
        49, United States Code;
            (5) $22,724,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs;
            (6) $7,138,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs;
            (7) $43,284,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary for Administration;
            (8) $6,244,000 shall be available for the Office of Public 
        Affairs and Public Engagement;
            (9) $2,515,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Executive Secretariat;
            (10) $16,506,000 shall be available for the Office of 
        Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response;
            (11) $33,879,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Chief Information Officer; and
            (12) $1,529,000 shall be available for the Office of Tribal 
        Government Affairs:

  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Transfer authority.>> the Secretary of 
Transportation (referred to in this title as the ``Secretary'') is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 7 percent by all such transfers:  
Provided further, That notice <<NOTE: Notice. Funding approval.>>  of 
any change in funding greater than 7 percent shall be submitted for 
approval to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Allocation. Determination.>> That not to exceed $70,000 
shall be for allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law,

[[Page 138 STAT. 300]]

there may be credited to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds 
received in user fees.

                         research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $49,040,000, of which $22,500,000 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amounts 
that are available until expended, $10,000,000 shall be for necessary 
expenses of the Advanced Research Projects Agency--Infrastructure (ARPA-
I) as authorized by section 119 of title 49, United States Code:  
Provided further, That within the funds made available under the 
preceding proviso, not less than $8,000,000 shall be available for 
research on durability, resiliency, and sustainability of bridges and 
other infrastructure and shall be directed to an accredited university 
of higher education in the northeast United States that has experience 
leading a regional university transportation center and a proven record 
of developing, patenting, deploying, and commercializing innovative 
composite materials and technologies for bridge and other transportation 
applications, as well as conducting research and developing prototypes 
using very large-scale polymer-based additive manufacturing:  Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training: <<NOTE: Continuation. 49 USC 112 
note.>>   Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, 
judicial proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative 
Technology Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference 
to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of 
the Department of Transportation.

                   national infrastructure investments

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out a local and regional project 
assistance grant program under section 6702 of title 49, United States 
Code, $345,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
section 6702(f)(2) of title 49, United States Code, shall not apply to 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading in this 
Act, not less than 5 percent shall be awarded to projects in 
historically disadvantaged communities or areas of persistent poverty as 
defined under section 6702(a)(1) of title 49, United States 
Code: <<NOTE: Grants.>>   Provided further, That grants awarded under 
this heading in this Act for eligible projects for planning, 
preparation, or design shall not be subject to a minimum grant size:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Distribution.>> That in distributing amounts 
made available under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall take 
such measures so as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution of 
funds, an appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and rural 
areas, including Tribal areas, and the investment in a variety of 
transportation modes:  Provided further, That for amounts made available 
under this heading in this Act, the Secretary shall give priority to 
projects that require a contribution of Federal funds in order to 
complete an overall financing package:  Provided further, That section 
6702(f)(1) of title 49, United States Code, shall not apply to amounts 
made available under this heading

[[Page 138 STAT. 301]]

in this Act:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Allocations. Urban and 
rural areas.>>  of the amounts awarded under this heading in this Act, 
not more than 50 percent shall be allocated for eligible projects 
located in rural areas and not more than 50 percent shall be allocated 
for eligible projects located in urbanized areas:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That for the purpose of determining if 
an award for planning, preparation, or design under this heading in this 
Act is an urban award, the project location is the location of the 
project being planned, prepared, or designed:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may retain up to 2 percent of the amounts made available 
under this heading in this Act, and may transfer portions of such 
amounts to the Administrators of the Federal Aviation Administration, 
the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, 
the Federal Railroad Administration and the Maritime Administration to 
fund the award and oversight of grants and credit assistance made under 
the program authorized under section 6702 of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That for amounts made available under this 
heading in this Act, the Secretary shall consider and award projects 
based solely on the selection criteria as identified under section 
6702(d)(3) and (d)(4) of title 49, United States Code.

      national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

    For necessary expenses of the National Surface Transportation and 
Innovative Finance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116, $9,558,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, <<NOTE: Fees.>>  That the 
Secretary may collect and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United 
States Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, including 
counsel, in the field of municipal and project finance to assist in the 
underwriting and servicing of Federal credit instruments and all or a 
portion of the costs to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
instruments:  Provided further, That such fees are available until 
expended to pay for such costs:  Provided further, That such amounts are 
in addition to other amounts made available for such purposes and are 
not subject to any obligation limitation or the limitation on 
administrative expenses under section 608 of title 23, United States 
Code.

               rural and tribal infrastructure advancement

    For necessary expenses to carry out rural and Tribal infrastructure 
advancement as authorized in section 21205 of Public Law 117-58, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Contracts.>> the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
agreements with philanthropic entities, non-profit organizations, other 
Federal agencies, State or local governments and their agencies, Indian 
Tribes, or other technical assistance providers, to provide such 
technical assistance, planning, and capacity building to State, local, 
or Tribal governments, United States territories, metropolitan planning 
organizations, transit agencies, or other political subdivisions of 
State or local governments.

        railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The <<NOTE: Loans.>> Secretary is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to chapter 224 of title 49, United States 
Code,

[[Page 138 STAT. 302]]

and such authority shall exist as long as any such direct loan or loan 
guarantee is outstanding.

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department of 
Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $5,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2025.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to network and information technology infrastructure, 
improvement of identity management and authentication capabilities, 
securing and protecting data, implementation of Federal cyber security 
initiatives, and implementation of enhanced security controls on agency 
computers and mobile devices, $49,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $18,228,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, $24,369,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
of such amount, $5,436,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the 
Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC):  
Provided further, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, 
to remain available until expended, amounts transferred from other 
Federal agencies for expenses incurred under this heading for IIPIC 
activities not related to transportation infrastructure:  Provided 
further, That the tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be 
available to other Federal agencies for the permitting and review of 
major infrastructure projects not related to transportation only to the 
extent that other Federal agencies provide funding to the Department in 
accordance with the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under this heading, $3,443,000 shall be made 
available for the purposes, and in amounts, specified for 
Congressionally Directed Spending in the table entitled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act).

                          working capital fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $522,165,000, shall be paid from 
appropriations made available to the Department

[[Page 138 STAT. 303]]

of Transportation:  Provided, That such services shall be provided on a 
competitive basis to entities within the Department of Transportation:  
Provided further, That the limitation in the preceding proviso on 
operating expenses shall not apply to entities external to the 
Department of Transportation or for funds provided in Public Law 117-58: 
 Provided further, That no funds made available by this Act to an agency 
of the Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund 
without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund Steering Committee 
and approval of the Secretary:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Assessments. Notifications. Approvals.>> That no 
assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.

        small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

    For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
utilization and outreach activities, $5,330,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 332 of 
title 49, United States Code, such amounts may be used for business 
opportunities related to any mode of transportation:  Provided further, 
That appropriations made available under this heading shall be available 
for any purpose consistent with prior year appropriations that were made 
available under the heading ``Office of the Secretary--Minority Business 
Resource Center Program''.

                        payments to air carriers

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under sections 41731 through 41742 
of title 49, United States Code, $348,554,000, to be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended: <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Provided, That in determining 
between or among carriers competing to provide service to a community, 
the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements of the 
carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air service minimum 
requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity requirement 
under section 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for the essential air 
service program under section 41742(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
shall be made available immediately from amounts otherwise provided to 
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration: <<NOTE: Reimbursements.>>  Provided further, That the 
Administrator may reimburse such amounts from fees credited to the 
account established under section 45303 of title 49, United States Code: 
 Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 41733 of title 49, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2024, the requirements established 
under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 41731(a)(1) of title 49, 
United States Code, and the subsidy cap established by section 332 of 
the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000, shall not apply to maintain eligibility under section 41731 
of title 49, United States Code.

[[Page 138 STAT. 304]]

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

                         (including rescissions)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Assessments. Contracts.>> None of the funds made 
available by this Act to the Department of Transportation may be 
obligated for the Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds appropriated 
to the operating administrations in this Act, except for activities 
underway on the date of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments 
or agreements have completed the normal reprogramming process for 
congressional notification.

    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: Web posting. Public 
information. Requirement. Records.>> The Secretary shall post on the web 
site of the Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of 
the Council on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for each 
meeting, and require the Council on Credit and Finance to record the 
decisions and actions of each meeting.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Reimbursements. Transit benefits.>> In addition to 
authority provided by section 327 of title 49, United States Code, the 
Department's Working Capital Fund is authorized to provide partial or 
full payments in advance and accept subsequent reimbursements from all 
Federal agencies from available funds for transit benefit distribution 
services that are necessary to carry out the Federal transit pass 
transportation fringe benefit program under Executive Order No. 13150 
and section 3049 of SAFETEA-LU (5 U.S.C. 7905 note):  Provided, That the 
Department shall maintain a reasonable operating reserve in the Working 
Capital Fund, to be expended in advance to provide uninterrupted transit 
benefits to Government employees:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Time 
period.>> such reserve shall not exceed 1 month of benefits payable and 
may be used only for the purpose of providing for the continuation of 
transit benefits: <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>   Provided further, That the 
Working Capital Fund shall be fully reimbursed by each customer agency 
from available funds for the actual cost of the transit benefit.

    Sec. 104.  Receipts collected in the Department's Working Capital 
Fund, as authorized by section 327 of title 49, United States Code, for 
unused transit and van pool benefits, in an amount not to exceed 10 
percent of fiscal year 2024 collections, shall be available until 
expended in the Department's Working Capital Fund to provide contractual 
services in support of section 189 of this Act:  Provided, That 
obligations in fiscal year 2024 of such collections shall not exceed 
$1,000,000.
    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Retention bonuses. Advance approval.>> None of the 
funds in this title may be obligated or expended for retention or senior 
executive bonuses for an employee of the Department of Transportation 
without the prior written approval of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration.

    Sec. 106.  In addition to authority provided by section 327 of title 
49, United States Code, the Department's Administrative Working Capital 
Fund is hereby authorized to transfer information technology equipment, 
software, and systems from departmental sources or other entities and 
collect and maintain a reserve at rates which will return full cost of 
transferred assets.
    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> None of the funds 
provided in this Act to the Department of Transportation may be used to 
provide credit assistance unless not less than 3 days before any 
application approval to

[[Page 138 STAT. 305]]

provide credit assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United 
States Code, the Secretary provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; 
the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives:  
Provided, That such notification shall include, but not be limited to, 
the name of the project sponsor; a description of the project; whether 
credit assistance will be provided as a direct loan, loan guarantee, or 
line of credit; and the amount of credit assistance.

    Sec. 108.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
for ``Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program'' in 
section 109 of division L of Public Law 117-103, $8,948,237.30 is hereby 
permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 109.  The Secretary of Transportation may transfer amounts 
awarded to a federally recognized Tribe under a funding agreement 
entered into under part 29 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, 
from the Department of Transportation's Operating Administrations to the 
Office of Tribal Government Affairs:  Provided, That any amounts 
retroceded or reassumed under such part may be transferred back to the 
appropriate Operating Administration.
    Sec. 109A. (a) Amounts made available to the Secretary of 
Transportation or the Department of Transportation's operating 
administrations in this Act for the costs of award, administration, or 
oversight of financial assistance under the programs identified in 
subsection (c) may be transferred to the account identified in section 
801 of division J of Public Law 117-58, to remain available until 
expended, for the necessary expenses of award, administration, or 
oversight of any financial assistance programs in the Department of 
Transportation.
    (b) Amounts transferred under the authority in this section are 
available in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purpose.
    (c) The program from which funds made available under this Act may 
be transferred under subsection (a) are--
            (1) the local and regional project assistance program under 
        section 6702 of title 49, United States Code; and
            (2) the university transportation centers program under 
        section 5505 of title 49, United States Code.

    Sec. 109B.  Of the amounts made available under the heading 
``National Infrastructure Investments'', up to $35,000,000 shall be 
available--
            (1) First, to fully fund the projects at the amounts for 
        which they applied under section 109B of the Consolidated 
        Appropriations Act, 2023 (division L of Public Law 117-328) and 
        were not fully funded; and
            (2) Second, to fund highway infrastructure projects for 
        which the initial grant agreement was executed between January 
        14, 2021 and February 14, 2021 for awards made from the national 
        infrastructure investments program under title I of division G 
        of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-
        6): <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided, That sponsors of 
        projects eligible for funds made available under subsection 
        shall provide sufficient written justification describing, at a 
        minimum, the

[[Page 138 STAT. 306]]

        current project cost estimate, why the project cannot be 
        completed with the obligated grant amount, and any other 
        relevant information, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
        further, That funds made available under this subsection shall 
        be allocated to projects eligible to receive funding under this 
        section in order of the date the grant agreements were initially 
        executed:  Provided further, That the allocation under the 
        previous proviso will be for the amounts necessary to cover 
        increases to eligible project costs since the grant was 
        obligated, based on the information provided:  Provided further, 
        That section 200.204 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations, 
        shall not apply to amounts made available under this section:  
        Provided further, That the amounts made available under this 
        section shall not be subject to limitations under section 
        6702(c) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
        the amounts made available under this section shall not be part 
        of the Federal share of total project costs under section 
        6702(e)(1) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, 
        That section 6702(f) of title 49, United States Code, shall not 
        apply to amounts made available under this section:  Provided 
        further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Requirements.>> the Office of 
        the Secretary of Transportation shall provide the amounts 
        allocated to projects under this section no later than 120 days 
        after the date the sufficient written justifications required 
        under this section have been submitted.

    Sec. 109C. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> For amounts provided for this 
fiscal year and prior fiscal years, section 24112(c)(2)(B) of Public Law 
117-58 shall be applied by substituting ``30 percent'' for ``40 
percent''.

    Sec. 109D.  The remaining unobligated balances, as of September 30, 
2024, from amounts made available for the ``Department of 
Transportation--Office of the Secretary--National Infrastructure 
Investments'' in division L of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 
(Public Law 116-260) are hereby permanently rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated on September 30, 2024, to remain available until 
September 30, 2027, and shall be available, without additional 
competition, for completing the funding of awards made pursuant to the 
fiscal year 2021 national infrastructure investments program, in 
addition to other funds as may be available for such purposes:  
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 109E. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> For amounts provided for fiscal 
year 2024 under the heading ``National Infrastructure Investments'' in 
title VIII of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act 
(Public Law 117-58) to carry out section 6702 of title 49, United States 
Code, the set aside for historically disadvantaged communities or areas 
of persistent poverty under subsection (f)(2) of such section shall be 
applied by substituting ``5 percent'' for ``1 percent'' in this fiscal 
year:  Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to this section that 
were previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget are designated as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 
(117th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2022, and to

[[Page 138 STAT. 307]]

legislation establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the 
House of Representatives.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, 
the lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, 
$12,729,627,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025, of which 
$12,093,150,000 to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund:  
Provided, That of the amounts made available under this heading--
            (1) not less than $1,745,532,000 shall be available for 
        aviation safety activities;
            (2) $9,439,068,000 shall be available for air traffic 
        organization activities;
            (3) $42,018,000 shall be available for commercial space 
        transportation activities;
            (4) $948,211,000 shall be available for finance and 
        management activities;
            (5) $67,818,000 shall be available for NextGen and 
        operations planning activities;
            (6) $162,155,000 shall be available for security and 
        hazardous materials safety activities; and
            (7) $324,825,000 shall be available for staff offices:

  Provided further, <<NOTE: Transfer authority.>> That not to exceed 5 
percent of any budget activity, except for aviation safety budget 
activity, may be transferred to any budget activity under this heading:  
Provided further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any 
appropriation under this heading by more than 5 percent:  Provided 
further, That any transfer in excess of 5 percent shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 405 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section: <<NOTE: Reports. 49 USC 44506 
note.>>   Provided further, That not later than 60 days after the 
submission of the budget request, the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to 
the report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 
221 of the Vision 100-Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act (49 U.S.C. 
40101 note):  Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  amounts 
made available under this heading shall be reduced by $100,000 for each 
day after 60 days after the submission of the budget request that such 
report has not been transmitted to Congress:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Estimates. 49 USC 44502 note.>> That not later 
than 60 days after the submission of the budget request, the 
Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report that 
describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, and training 
flight standards and aircraft certification staff in a format similar to 
the one utilized for the controller staffing plan, including stated 
attrition

[[Page 138 STAT. 308]]

estimates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  Provided further, 
That the <<NOTE: Reduction.>>  amounts made available under this heading 
shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after the date that is 60 days 
after the submission of the budget request that such report has not been 
submitted to Congress: <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts. Nonprofits. Aviation 
safety.>>   Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a 
grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to assist 
in the development of aviation safety standards:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act shall be available for new 
applicants for the second career training 
program: <<NOTE: Regulations.>>   Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available by this Act shall be available for the Federal 
Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically authorized by 
law after the date of the enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, foreign 
authorities, other public authorities, and private sources for expenses 
incurred in the provision of agency services, including receipts for the 
maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, and for 
issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including airman, 
aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related thereto, 
or for processing major repair or alteration forms:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts made available under this heading, not less than 
$205,376,000 shall be used to fund direct operations of the current air 
traffic control towers in the contract tower program, including the 
contract tower cost share program, and any airport that is currently 
qualified or that will qualify for the program during the fiscal year:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available by this Act for 
aeronautical charting and cartography are available for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act may be used to eliminate the 
contract weather observers program at any airport.

                        facilities and equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, 
establishment, technical support services, improvement by contract or 
purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and experimental 
facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of 
title 49, United States Code, including initial acquisition of necessary 
sites by lease or grant; engineering and service testing, including 
construction of test facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by 
lease or grant; construction and furnishing of quarters and related 
accommodations for officers and employees of the Federal Aviation 
Administration stationed at remote localities where such accommodations 
are not available; and the purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from 
funds made available under this heading, including aircraft for aviation 
regulation and certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund, $3,191,250,000, of which $634,739,370 is for personnel and 
related expenses and shall remain available until September 30, 2025, 
$2,496,360,630 shall remain available until September 30, 2026, and 
$60,150,000 is for terminal facilities and shall remain available

[[Page 138 STAT. 309]]

until September 30, 2028:  Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems: <<NOTE: Deadline. Investment plan. Time period.>>   Provided 
further, That not later than 60 days after submission of the budget 
request, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress 
an investment plan for the Federal Aviation Administration which 
includes funding for each budget line item for fiscal years 2025 through 
2029, with total funding for each year of the plan constrained to the 
funding targets for those years as estimated and approved by the Office 
of Management and Budget: <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Provided further, 
That section 405 of this Act shall apply to amounts made available under 
this heading in title VIII of the Infrastructure Investments and Jobs 
Appropriations Act (division J of Public Law 117-58):  Provided further, 
That the amounts in the table entitled ``Allocation of Funds for FAA 
Facilities and Equipment from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
Act--Fiscal Year 2024'' in the explanatory statement described in 
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act) 
shall be the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
authorities for the current fiscal year pursuant to paragraph (7) of 
such section 405 for amounts referred to in the preceding 
proviso: <<NOTE: Advance approval. Transfer authority.>>   Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding paragraphs (5) and (6) of such section 
405, unless prior approval is received from the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, not to exceed 10 percent of any funding 
level specified for projects and activities in the table referred to in 
the preceding proviso may be transferred to any other funding level 
specified for projects and activities in such table and no transfer of 
such funding levels may increase or decrease any funding level in such 
table by more than 10 percent:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading for terminal facilities, $15,000,000 
shall be made available for the purposes, and in amounts, specified for 
Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending in the table 
entitled ``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' 
included in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act).

                 research, engineering, and development

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII 
of title 49, United States Code, including construction of experimental 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
$280,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until September 30, 2026:  Provided, That there may 
be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections, funds 
received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, which shall be available for expenses 
incurred for research, engineering, and development:  Provided further, 
That amounts made available under this heading shall be used in 
accordance with the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act): <<NOTE: Transfer 
authority.>>   Provided further, That not to exceed

[[Page 138 STAT. 310]]

10 percent of any funding level specified under this heading in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act) may be transferred to any other 
funding level specified under this heading in the explanatory statement 
described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
consolidated Act):  Provided further, That no transfer may increase or 
decrease any funding level by more than 10 percent:  Provided further, 
That any transfer in excess of 10 percent shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 405 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,350,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the amounts made available under this heading shall be available for 
the planning or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $3,350,000,000, in fiscal year 2024, notwithstanding section 
47117(g) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none 
of the amounts made available under this heading shall be available for 
the replacement of baggage conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal 
baggage areas, or other airport improvements that are necessary to 
install bulk explosive detection systems:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 47109(a) of title 49, United States Code, the 
Government's share of allowable project costs under paragraph (2) of 
such section for subgrants or paragraph (3) of such section shall be 95 
percent for a project at other than a large or medium hub airport that 
is a successive phase of a multi-phased construction project for which 
the project sponsor received a grant in fiscal year 2011 for the 
construction project:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, of amounts limited under this heading, not less than 
$152,148,000 shall be available for administration, $15,000,000 shall be 
available for the airport cooperative research program, $41,801,000 
shall be available for airport technology research, and $10,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be available and transferred to 
``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and Expenses'' to carry out

[[Page 138 STAT. 311]]

the small community air service development program:  Provided further, 
That in <<NOTE: Request for proposals.>> addition to airports eligible 
under section 41743 of title 49, United States Code, such program may 
include the participation of an airport that serves a community or 
consortium that is not larger than a small hub airport, according to FAA 
hub classifications effective at the time the Office of the Secretary 
issues a request for proposals:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
may provide grants to any commercial service airport, notwithstanding 
the requirement for the airport to be located in an air quality 
nonattainment or maintenance area or to be able to receive emission 
credits in section 47102(3)(K) and 47102(3)(L) of title 49, United 
States Code, for work necessary to construct or modify airport 
facilities to provide low-emission fuel systems, gate electrification, 
other related air quality improvements, acquisition of airport-owned 
vehicles or ground support equipment with low-emission technology, 
provided such vehicles are used exclusively on airport property or to 
transport passengers and employees between the airport and the airport's 
consolidated rental facility or an intermodal surface transportation 
facility adjacent to the airport.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

    For an additional amount for ``Grants-In-Aid for Airports'', to 
enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants for projects as 
authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471 and subchapter 1 of chapter 
475 of title 49, United States Code, $532,392,074, to remain available 
through September 30, 2026:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading shall be derived from the general fund, and such funds 
shall not be subject to apportionment formulas, special apportionment 
categories, or minimum percentages under chapter 471 of title 49, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That of the sums appropriated under this 
heading--
            (1) $482,392,074 shall be made available for the purposes, 
        and in amounts, specified for Community Project Funding/
        Congressionally Directed Spending in the table entitled 
        ``Community Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' 
        included in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in 
        the matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  
        Provided, That funds made available under this section shall not 
        be subject to or considered under section 47115(j)(3)(B) of 
        title 49, United States Code;
            (2) up to $50,000,000 shall be made available to the 
        Secretary to distribute as discretionary grants to airports; and
            (3) not less than $3,000,000 shall be made available for two 
        remaining projects under section 190 of the FAA Reauthorization 
        Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-254):  Provided, That, 
        notwithstanding subsection (j)(2) of section 190 of the FAA 
        Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-254), such grants 
        shall be made available for conducting testing activities in 
        support of studying the effectiveness of existing federally 
        funded sound insulation in residential areas located within the 
        65 DNL noise contour of a large-hub airport that will facilitate 
        future environmental mitigation projects in these areas:  
        Provided further, That, with respect to a project funded under 
        the previous proviso, the allowable project cost for such 
        project

[[Page 138 STAT. 312]]

        shall be calculated without consideration of any costs that were 
        previously paid by the Government:

  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  the Secretary may 
make discretionary grants to primary airports for airport-owned 
infrastructure required for the on-airport distribution or storage of 
sustainable aviation fuels that achieve at least a 50 percent reduction 
in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions, using a methodology determined by 
the Secretary, including, but not limited to, on-airport construction or 
expansion of pipelines, rail lines and spurs, loading and off-loading 
facilities, blending facilities, and storage tanks:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary may make discretionary grants with funds made 
available under this heading to primary or nonprimary airports for the 
acquisition or construction costs related to airport-owned, revenue-
producing aeronautical fuel farms and fueling systems, including mobile 
systems, that the Secretary determines will promote the use of unleaded 
or sustainable aviation fuels on a non-exclusive basis:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary may make discretionary grants for airport 
development improvements of primary runways, taxiways, and aprons 
necessary at a nonhub, small hub, medium hub, or large hub airport to 
increase operational resilience for the purpose of resuming commercial 
service flight operations following flooding, high water, hurricane, 
storm surge, tidal wave, tornado, tsunami, wind driven water, or winter 
storms:  Provided further, That the amounts made available under this 
heading shall not be subject to any limitation on obligations for the 
Grants-in-Aid for Airports program set forth in any Act:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may retain up to 0.5 percent of the amounts made available under this 
heading to fund the award and oversight by the Administrator of grants 
made under this heading.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

                         (including rescissions)

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to compensate in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally 
funded research and development center contract between the Federal 
Aviation Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems 
Development during fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to pursue or adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport 
sponsors to provide to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost 
building construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in 
airport sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic 
control, air navigation, or weather reporting:  Provided, That the 
prohibition on the use of funds in this section does not apply to 
negotiations between the agency and airport sponsors to achieve 
agreement on ``below-market'' rates for these items or to grant 
assurances that require airport sponsors to provide land without cost to 
the Federal Aviation Administration for air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> The Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 
section 41742(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, from fees credited 
under section 45303 of title 49, United States Code, and any amount 
remaining in such account at the close of any fiscal year may

[[Page 138 STAT. 313]]

be made available to satisfy section 41742(a)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, for the subsequent fiscal year.

    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes as such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for paying premium pay under section 5546(a) of title 5, 
United States Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee 
unless such employee actually performed work during the time 
corresponding to such premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration to purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through 
use of a Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request to 
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking of 
that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number, Mode S 
transponder code, flight identification, call sign, or similar 
identifying information from any ground based display to the public that 
would allow the real-time or near real-time flight tracking of that 
aircraft's movements, except data made available to a Government agency, 
for the noncommercial flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for salaries and expenses of more than nine political and 
Presidential appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: Fees. Reports.>> None of the funds made available 
by this Act may be used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of 
title 49, United States Code, until the Federal Aviation Administration 
provides to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report 
that justifies all fees related to aeronautical navigation products and 
explains how such fees are consistent with Executive Order No. 13642.

    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: Advance notice.>> None of the funds made available 
by this Act may be used to close a regional operations center of the 
Federal Aviation Administration or reduce its services unless the 
Administrator notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
not less than 90 full business days in advance.

    Sec. 119A. <<NOTE: New Jersey.>> None of the funds made available by 
or limited by this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or 
prior permission rules at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.

    Sec. 119B. <<NOTE: Determination.>> None of the funds made available 
by this Act may be used by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration to withhold from consideration and approval any new 
application for participation in the contract tower program, or for 
reevaluation of cost-share program participants so long as the Federal 
Aviation Administration has received an application from the airport, 
and so long as the Administrator determines such tower is eligible using 
the factors set forth in Federal Aviation Administration published 
establishment criteria.

    Sec. 119C. <<NOTE: Reprogramming request.>> None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used to open, close, redesignate as a 
lesser office, or reorganize a regional office, the aeronautical center, 
or the technical

[[Page 138 STAT. 314]]

center unless the Administrator submits a request for the reprogramming 
of funds under section 405 of this Act.

    Sec. 119D. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> The Federal Aviation 
Administration Administrative Services Franchise Fund may be reimbursed 
after performance or paid in advance from funds available to the Federal 
Aviation Administration and other Federal agencies for which the Fund 
performs services.

    Sec. 119E. <<NOTE: Time periods.>> None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the FAA may be used to carry out the FAA's 
obligations under section 44502(e) of title 49, United States Code, 
unless the eligible air traffic system or equipment to be transferred to 
the FAA under section 44502(e) of title 49, United States Code, was 
purchased by the transferor airport--
            (1) during the period of time beginning on October 5, 2018 
        and ending on December 31, 2021; or
            (2) on or after January 1, 2022 for transferor airports 
        located in a non-contiguous States.

    Sec. 119F. <<NOTE: Reimbursement. President.>> Of the funds provided 
under the heading ``Grants-in-aid for Airports'', up to $3,500,000 shall 
be for necessary expenses, including an independent verification regime, 
to provide reimbursement to airport sponsors that do not provide gateway 
operations and providers of general aviation ground support services, or 
other aviation tenants, located at those airports closed during a 
temporary flight restriction (TFR) for any residence of the President 
that is designated or identified to be secured by the United States 
Secret Service, and for direct and incremental financial losses incurred 
while such airports are closed solely due to the actions of the Federal 
Government: <<NOTE: Audit.>>   Provided, That no funds shall be 
obligated or distributed to airport sponsors that do not provide gateway 
operations and providers of general aviation ground support services 
until an independent audit is completed:  Provided further, That losses 
incurred as a result of violations of law, or through fault or 
negligence, of such operators and service providers or of third parties 
(including airports) are not eligible for reimbursements:  Provided 
further, That obligation and expenditure of funds are conditional upon 
full release of the United States Government for all claims for 
financial losses resulting from such actions.

    Sec. 119G.  Of the unobligated balances available to the Federal 
Aviation Administration, the following funds are hereby permanently 
rescinded:
            (1) $1,590,528.89 from funds made available for ``Federal 
        Aviation Administration--Facilities and Equipment'', which were 
        to remain available until expended, by title I of Public Law 
        104-50; and
            (2) $2,878.02 from funds made available for ``Federal 
        Aviation Administration--Facilities and Equipment'' by chapter 
        10, division B, of Public Law 108-324.

    Sec. 119H.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act shall be used to facilitate the assignment of individuals from a 
private-sector organization to the FAA to serve on a temporary basis.

[[Page 138 STAT. 315]]

                     Federal Highway Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $483,551,671 together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be obligated for 
necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration:  Provided, That in addition, $3,248,000 shall be 
transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission in accordance with 
section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>>  for the implementation 
or execution of authorized Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
construction programs shall not exceed total obligations of 
$60,095,782,888 for fiscal year 2024:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the limitation on obligations 
under this heading shall only apply to contract authority authorized 
from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), 
unless otherwise specified in law.

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out authorized 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs, 
$60,834,782,888 shall be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than 
the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until expended.

                     highway infrastructure programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary $2,224,676,687:  
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading shall be 
derived from the general fund, shall be in addition to any funds 
provided for fiscal year 2024 in this or any other Act for: (1) 
``Federal-aid Highways'' under chapter 1 of title 23, United States 
Code; (2) the Appalachian development highway system as authorized under 
section 1069(y) of Public Law 102-240; (3) activities eligible under the 
Tribal transportation program under section 202 of title 23, United 
States Code; (4) the Northern Border Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 
15101 et seq.); or (5) the Denali Commission, and shall not affect the 
distribution or amount of funds provided in any other Act:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That, except for the funds made 
available under this heading for the Northern Border Regional Commission 
and the Denali Commission, section 11101(e) of Public

[[Page 138 STAT. 316]]

Law 117-58 shall apply to funds made available under this heading:  
Provided further, That unless otherwise specified, amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available until September 30, 
2027, and shall not be subject to any limitation on obligations for 
Federal-aid highways or highway safety construction programs set forth 
in any Act making annual appropriations:  Provided further, That of the 
sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $1,884,176,687 shall be for the purposes, and in the 
        amounts, specified for Community Project Funding/Congressionally 
        Directed Spending in the table entitled ``Community Project 
        Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included in the 
        explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
        preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That, 
        except as otherwise provided under this heading, the funds made 
        available under this paragraph shall be administered as if 
        apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code:  
        Provided further, That funds made available under this paragraph 
        that are used for Tribal projects shall be administered as if 
        allocated under chapter 2 of title 23, United States Code, 
        except that the set-asides described in subparagraph (C) of 
        section 202(b)(3) of title 23, United States Code, and 
        subsections (a)(6), (c), and (e) of section 202 of such title, 
        and section 1123(h)(1) of MAP-21 (as amended by Public Law 117-
        58), shall not apply to such funds;
            (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>> $100,000,000 shall be for 
        necessary expenses for construction of the Appalachian 
        development highway system, as authorized under section 1069(y) 
        of Public Law 102-240:  Provided, That for the purposes of funds 
        made available under this paragraph, the term ``Appalachian 
        State'' means a State that contains 1 or more counties 
        (including any political subdivision located within the area) in 
        the Appalachian region as defined in section 14102(a) of title 
        40, United States Code:  Provided further, That funds made 
        available under this heading for construction of the Appalachian 
        development highway system shall remain available until 
        expended:  Provided further, That, except as provided in the 
        following proviso, funds made available under this heading for 
        construction of the Appalachian development highway system shall 
        be administered as if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code:  Provided further, That a project carried 
        out with funds made available under this heading for 
        construction of the Appalachian development highway system shall 
        be carried out in the same manner as a project under section 
        14501 of title 40, United States Code:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Apportionments.>> That subject to the following 
        proviso, funds made available under this heading for 
        construction of the Appalachian development highway system shall 
        be apportioned to Appalachian States according to the 
        percentages derived from the 2012 Appalachian development 
        highway system cost-to-complete estimate, adopted in Appalachian 
        Regional Commission Resolution Number 736, and confirmed as each 
        Appalachian State's relative share of the estimated remaining 
        need to complete the Appalachian development highway system, 
        adjusted to exclude those corridors that such States have no 
        current plans to complete, as reported in the 2013 Appalachian 
        Development Highway System Completion Report, unless those 
        States have modified and assigned a higher priority for 
        completion of an Appalachian development highway

[[Page 138 STAT. 317]]

        system corridor, as reported in the 2020 Appalachian Development 
        Highway System Future <<NOTE: Apportionments.>>  Outlook:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary shall adjust apportionments 
        made under the preceding proviso so that no Appalachian State 
        shall be apportioned an amount in excess of 30 percent of the 
        amount made available for construction of the Appalachian 
        development highway system under this 
        heading: <<NOTE: Consultation.>>   Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall consult with the Appalachian Regional Commission 
        in making adjustments under the preceding two provisos:  
        Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs for which 
        an expenditure is made for construction of the Appalachian 
        development highway system under this heading shall be up to 100 
        percent;
            (3) $150,000,000 shall be for activities eligible under the 
        Tribal transportation program, as described in section 202 of 
        title 23, United States Code:  Provided, That, except as 
        otherwise provided under this heading, the funds made available 
        under this paragraph shall be administered as if allocated under 
        chapter 2 of title 23, United States Code:  Provided further, 
        That the set-asides described in subparagraph (C) of section 
        202(b)(3) of title 23, United States Code, and subsections 
        (a)(6), (c), and (e) of section 202 of such title shall not 
        apply to funds made available under this paragraph:  Provided 
        further, That the set-aside described in section 1123(h)(1) of 
        MAP-21 (as amended by Public Law 117-58), shall not apply to 
        such funds;
            (4) $5,000,000 shall be transferred to the Northern Border 
        Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et seq.) to make grants, in 
        addition to amounts otherwise made available to the Northern 
        Border Regional Commission for such purpose, to carry out pilot 
        projects that demonstrate the capabilities of wood-based 
        infrastructure projects:  Provided, That a grant made with funds 
        made available under this paragraph shall be administered in the 
        same manner as a grant made under subtitle V of title 40, United 
        States Code;
            (5) $4,500,000 shall be transferred to the Denali Commission 
        for activities eligible under section 307(e) of the Denali 
        Commission Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 3121 note; Public Law 105-
        277):  Provided, That funds made available under this paragraph 
        shall not be subject to section 311 of such Act:  Provided 
        further, That <<NOTE: Apportionment.>> except as otherwise 
        provided under section 307(e) of such Act or this heading, funds 
        made available under this paragraph shall be administered as if 
        directly appropriated to the Denali Commission and subject to 
        applicable provisions of such Act, including the requirement in 
        section 307(e) of such Act that the local community provides a 
        10 percent non-Federal match in the form of any necessary land 
        or planning and design funds:  Provided further, That such funds 
        shall be available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
        Federal share of the costs for which an expenditure is made with 
        funds transferred under this paragraph shall be up to 90 
        percent;
            (6) $13,500,000 shall be transferred to the Denali 
        Commission to carry out the Denali access system program under 
        section 309 of the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 3121 
        note; Public Law 105-277):  Provided, That a transfer under this 
        paragraph shall not be subject to section 311 of

[[Page 138 STAT. 318]]

        such Act:  Provided further, That except as otherwise provided 
        under this heading, funds made available under this paragraph 
        shall be administered as if directly appropriated to the Denali 
        Commission and subject to applicable provisions of such Act:  
        Provided further, That funds made available under this paragraph 
        shall not be subject to section 309(j)(2) of such Act:  Provided 
        further, That funds made available under this paragraph shall be 
        available until expended:  Provided further, That the Federal 
        share of the costs for which an expenditure is made with funds 
        transferred under this paragraph shall be up to 100 percent;
            (7) $10,000,000 shall be for the regional infrastructure 
        accelerator demonstration program authorized under section 1441 
        of the FAST Act (23 U.S.C. 601 note):  Provided, That for funds 
        made available under this paragraph, the Federal share of the 
        costs shall be, at the option of the recipient, up to 100 
        percent:  Provided further, That funds made available under this 
        paragraph may be transferred to the Office of the Secretary;
            (8) $7,500,000 shall be for the national scenic byways 
        program under section 162 of title 23, United States Code:  
        Provided, That, except as otherwise provided under this heading, 
        the funds made available under this paragraph shall be 
        administered as if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code; and
            (9) $50,000,000, in addition to amounts made available in 
        section 126 of this Act, shall be for a competitive highway 
        bridge program for States that--
                    (A) have a population density of less than 115 
                individuals per square mile; and
                    (B) have--
                          (i) less than 26 percent of total bridges 
                      classified as in good condition; or
                          (ii) greater than or equal to 5.2 percent of 
                      total bridges classified as in poor condition:
          Provided, That any such State with more than 14 percent of 
        total bridges classified as in poor condition shall receive not 
        less than $32,500,000 of the funds made available in this 
        paragraph or in section 126 of this Act for grant applications 
        for projects eligible under this paragraph:  Provided further, 
        That if the <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Secretary determines that 
        eligible applications from any such State meeting the criteria 
        under the preceding proviso are insufficient to make awards of 
        at least $32,500,000, the Secretary shall use the unutilized 
        amounts to provide other grants to States eligible under this 
        paragraph: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
        this paragraph shall be used for highway bridge replacement or 
        rehabilitation projects on public roads that demonstrate cost 
        savings by bundling multiple highway bridge projects and, except 
        as otherwise provided in this heading, shall be administered as 
        if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code:  
        Provided further, That the requirements of section 144(j)(5) of 
        title 23, United States Code, shall not apply to funds made 
        available under this paragraph:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Calculation.>>  That for purposes of this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall calculate population density 
        figures based on the latest available data from the decennial 
        census conducted under section 141(a) of title 13, United States

[[Page 138 STAT. 319]]

        Code:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Calculation.>> for 
        purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary shall calculate the 
        percentages of bridge counts (including the percentages of 
        bridge counts classified as in poor and good condition) based on 
        the national bridge inventory as of June 2023.

        administrative provisions--federal highway administration

                         (including rescissions)

    Sec. 120. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> (a) For fiscal year 2024, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highway and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                section 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highway and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums authorized 
                to be appropriated for provisions of law described in 
                paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (b) and sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for section 119 of title 
                23, United States Code, equal to the amount referred to 
                in subsection (b)(12) for such fiscal year), less the 
                aggregate of the amounts not distributed under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection;
            (4) <<NOTE: Distribution. Applicability.>> distribute the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways, less the 
        aggregate amounts not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        for each of the programs (other than programs to which paragraph 
        (1) applies) that are allocated by the Secretary under 
        authorized Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction 
        programs, or apportioned by the Secretary under section 202 or 
        204 of title 23, United States Code, by multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 320]]

            (5) <<NOTE: Distribution.>> distribute the obligation 
        limitation for Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate amounts 
        not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts 
        distributed under paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and 
        highway safety construction programs that are apportioned by the 
        Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than the 
        amounts apportioned for the national highway performance program 
        in section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned under 
                title 23, United States Code, to all States for such 
                fiscal year.

    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations under 
or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act 
        of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) <<NOTE: Time period.>> section 105 of title 23, United 
        States Code (as in effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, 
        but only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those 
        fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity Act 
        for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) <<NOTE: Time period.>> section 105 of title 23, United 
        States Code (as in effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, 
        but only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those 
        fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) <<NOTE: Time period.>> section 119 of title 23, United 
        States Code (but, for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2024, 
        only in an amount equal to $639,000,000).

    (c) Redistribution of <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Unused Obligation 
Authority.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after 
August 1 of such fiscal year--

[[Page 138 STAT. 321]]

            (1) <<NOTE: Revision.>> revise a distribution of the 
        obligation limitation made available under subsection (a) if an 
        amount distributed cannot be obligated during that fiscal year; 
        and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.

    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code;
                    (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface 
                Transportation Act; and
                    (C) title III of division A of the Infrastructure 
                Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58).
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Time period.>> remain available for a 
                period of 4 fiscal years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.

    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 30 days 
        after the date of distribution of obligation limitation under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any 
        funds (excluding funds authorized for the program under section 
        202 of title 23, United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highway programs; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Determination.>> the Secretary 
                determines will not be allocated to the States (or will 
                not be apportioned to the States under section 204 of 
                title 23, United States Code), and will not be available 
                for obligation, for such fiscal year because of the 
                imposition of any obligation limitation for such fiscal 
                year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.

    Sec. 121. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
funds received by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale 
of data products, for necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 
of title 49, United States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid 
highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such 
expenses.

    Sec. 122. <<NOTE: Deadline. Waivers. Public information. Notice. 23 
USC 313 note.>> Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall

[[Page 138 STAT. 322]]

make an informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to 
issue such waiver and the reasons therefor:  Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Web posting.>> Secretary shall post on a website any waivers 
granted under the Buy America requirements.

    Sec. 
123. <<NOTE: Grants. Deadlines. Notification. Evaluation.>> None of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used to make a grant for a 
project under section 117 of title 23, United States Code, unless the 
Secretary, at least 60 days before making a grant under that section, 
provides written notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an evaluation and 
justification for the project and the amount of the proposed grant 
award.

    Sec. 124. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 165 of 
title 23, United States Code, may use for any project eligible under 
section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23 and located within 
the boundary of the State or territory any earmarked amount, and any 
associated obligation <<NOTE: Notification. Reports.>>  limitation:  
Provided, That the Department of Transportation for the State or 
territory for which the earmarked amount was originally designated or 
directed notifies the Secretary of its intent to use its authority under 
this section and submits an annual report to the Secretary identifying 
the projects to which the funding would <<NOTE: Time period.>>  be 
applied. Notwithstanding the original period of availability of funds to 
be obligated under this section, such funds and associated obligation 
limitation shall remain available for obligation for a period of 3 
fiscal years after the fiscal year in which the Secretary is notified. 
The Federal share of the cost of a project carried out with funds made 
available under this section shall be the same as associated with the 
earmark.

    (b) <<NOTE: Definition. Time period.>> In this section, the term 
``earmarked amount'' means--
            (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
        XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration; or
            (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
        Rules of the House of Representatives, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration.

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. Certifications.>> The 
authority under subsection (a) may be exercised only for those projects 
or activities that have obligated less than 10 percent of the amount 
made available for obligation as of October 1 of the current fiscal 
year, and shall be applied to projects within the same general 
geographic area within 25 miles for which the funding was designated, 
except that a State or territory may apply such authority to unexpended 
balances of funds from projects or activities the State or territory 
certifies have been closed and for which payments have been made under a 
final voucher.

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Secretary shall submit consolidated 
reports of the information provided by the States and territories 
annually to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 125. (a) Of the unallocated and unobligated balances available 
to the Federal Highway Administration, the following funds are hereby 
permanently rescinded, subject to subsections (b) and (c), from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts:

[[Page 138 STAT. 323]]

            (1) $48,346,377.35 from funds available in the ``Surface 
        Transportation Priorities'' account (69 X 0538);
            (2) $1,839,129.40 from funds available in the ``Delta 
        Regional Transportation Development Program'' account (69 X 
        0551);
            (3) $11,064,579.57 from funds available in the ``Appalachian 
        Development Highway System'' account (69 X 0640);
            (4) $9,264.22 from funds available in the ``Highway 
        Beautification'' account (69 X 0540);
            (5) $1,375,400 from funds available in the ``State 
        Infrastructure Banks'' account (69 X 0549);
            (6) $90,435 from funds available in the ``Railroad-Highway 
        Crossings Demonstration Projects'' account (69 X 0557);
            (7) $5,211,248.53 from funds available in the ``Interstate 
        Transfer Grants--Highway'' account (69 X 0560);
            (8) $133,231.12 from funds available in the ``Kentucky 
        Bridge Project'' account (69 X 0572);
            (9) $2,887.56 from funds available in the ``Highway 
        Demonstration Project--Preliminary Engineering'' account (69 X 
        0583);
            (10) $149,083.06 from funds available in the ``Highway 
        Demonstration Projects'' account (69 X 0598); and
            (11) $68,438.40 from funds available in the ``Miscellaneous 
        Highway Projects'' account (69 X 0641).

    (b) No amounts may be rescinded under subsection (a) from any funds 
for which a State exercised its authority under section 125 of division 
L of Public Law 114-113, section 422 of division K of Public Law 115-31, 
section 126 of division L of Public Law 115-141, section 125 of division 
G of Public Law 116-6, section 125 of division H of Public Law 116-94, 
section 124 of division L of Public Law 116-260, section 124 of division 
L of Public Law 117-103, or section 124 of division L of Public Law 117-
328.
    (c) No amounts may be rescinded under subsection (a) from any 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 126. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$200,000,000 from the funds described in subsection (b), in addition to 
amounts made available in paragraph (9) under the heading ``Highway 
Infrastructure Programs'', shall be available for a competitive highway 
bridge program for States that--
            (1) have a population density of less than 115 individuals 
        per square mile; and
            (2) have--
                    (A) less than 26 percent of total bridges classified 
                as in good condition; or
                    (B) greater than or equal to 5.2 percent of total 
                bridges classified as in poor condition:

  Provided, That any such State with more than 14 percent of total 
bridges classified as in poor condition shall receive not less than 
$32,500,000 of the funds made available under this subsection or in 
paragraph (9) under the heading ``Highway Infrastructure Programs'' for 
grant applications for projects eligible under this 
subsection: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided further, That if the 
Secretary determines that eligible applications from any such State 
meeting the criteria under the preceding proviso are insufficient to 
make awards of at least

[[Page 138 STAT. 324]]

$32,500,000, the Secretary shall use the unutilized amounts to provide 
other grants to States eligible under this subsection:  Provided 
further, That the funds made available under this subsection shall be 
used for highway bridge replacement or rehabilitation projects on public 
roads that demonstrate cost savings by bundling multiple highway bridge 
projects and, except as otherwise provided in this section, shall be 
administered as if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That the requirements of section 
144(j)(5) of title 23, United States Code, shall not apply to funds made 
available under this subsection:  Provided further, That for purposes of 
this subsection, the Secretary shall calculate population density 
figures based on the latest available data from the decennial census 
conducted under section 141(a) of title 13, United States 
Code: <<NOTE: Calculation.>>   Provided further, That for purposes of 
this subsection, the Secretary shall calculate the percentages of bridge 
counts (including the percentages of bridge counts classified as in poor 
and good condition) based on the national bridge inventory as of June 
2023: <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Provided further, That section 11101(e) 
of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58) shall 
apply to funds made available under this subsection.

    (b) Funds described in this subsection are any funds that--
            (1) are unobligated on the date of enactment of this Act; 
        and
            (2) were made available for credit assistance under--
                    (A) the transportation infrastructure finance and 
                innovation program under subchapter II of chapter 1 of 
                title 23, United States Code, as in effect prior to 
                August 10, 2005; or
                    (B) the transportation infrastructure finance and 
                innovation program under chapter 6 of title 23, United 
                States Code.

    (c) Funds made available under subsection (a) for a competitive 
highway bridge program for States shall--
            (1) be subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highway and highway safety construction programs; and
            (2) unless otherwise specified in this section, remain 
        available until September 30, 2027.

    (d) The obligation limitation made available under section 120(a)(2) 
that is associated with funds made available under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) remain available until September 30, 2027; and
            (2) be in addition to the amount of any limitation imposed 
        on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
        construction programs for future fiscal years.

               Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, execution 
and administration of motor carrier safety operations and programs 
pursuant to section 31110 of title 49, United States

[[Page 138 STAT. 325]]

Code, as amended by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public 
Law 117-58), $346,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account), together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration, the sum of which shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, That funds available for implementation, execution, or 
administration of motor carrier safety operations and programs 
authorized under title 49, United States Code, shall not exceed total 
obligations of $411,000,000, for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and 
Programs'' for fiscal year 2024, of which $14,073,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2026, is for the research 
and technology program, and of which not less than $99,098,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2026, is for 
development, modernization, enhancement, and continued operation and 
maintenance of information technology and information management.

                       motor carrier safety grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United States Code, $516,300,000, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for the implementation or execution of motor carrier safety 
programs shall not exceed total obligations of $516,300,000 in fiscal 
year 2024 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants'':  Provided further, That 
of the amounts made available under this heading--
            (1) $406,500,000, to remain available for obligation until 
        September 30, 2025, shall be for the motor carrier safety 
        assistance program;
            (2) $43,500,000, to remain available for obligation until 
        September 30, 2025, shall be for the commercial driver's license 
        program implementation program;
            (3) $60,000,000, to remain available for obligation until 
        September 30, 2025, shall be for the high priority program;
            (4) $1,300,000, to remain available for obligation until 
        September 30, 2025, shall be for the commercial motor vehicle 
        operators grant program; and
            (5) $5,000,000, to remain available for obligation until 
        September 30, 2025, shall be for the commercial motor vehicle 
        enforcement training and support grant program.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130. <<NOTE: Notice. Mail.>> The Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration shall send notice of section 385.308 of title 49, Code of 
Federal Regulations, violations by certified mail, registered mail, or 
another manner of delivery, which records the receipt of the notice by 
the persons responsible for the violations.

[[Page 138 STAT. 326]]

    Sec. 131.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Transportation by this Act or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended to implement, administer, or enforce 
the requirements of section 31137 of title 49, United States Code, or 
any regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to such section, with 
respect to the use of electronic logging devices by operators of 
commercial motor vehicles, as defined in section 31132(1) of such title, 
transporting livestock as defined in section 602 of the Emergency 
Livestock Feed Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                         operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety, authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, $223,000,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2025.

                         operations and research

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of section 403 of title 23, United States Code, including behavioral 
research on automated driving systems and advanced driver assistance 
systems and improving consumer responses to safety recalls, section 
25024 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), 
and chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, $201,200,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution 
of programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2024, are in 
excess of $201,200,000:  Provided further, That of the sums appropriated 
under this heading--
            (1) $194,000,000 shall be for programs authorized under 
        section 403 of title 23, United States Code, including 
        behavioral research on automated driving systems and advanced 
        driver assistance systems and improving consumer responses to 
        safety recalls, and section 25024 of the Infrastructure 
        Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58); and
            (2) $7,200,000 shall be for the national driver register 
        authorized under chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code:

  Provided further, That within the $201,200,000 obligation limitation 
for operations and research, $57,500,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2025, and shall be in addition to the amount of any 
limitation imposed on obligations for future years:  Provided further, 
That amounts for behavioral research on automated driving systems and 
advanced driver assistance systems and improving consumer responses to 
safety recalls are in addition to any other funds provided for those 
purposes for fiscal year 2024 in this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 327]]

                      highway traffic safety grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
sections 402, 404, and 405 of title 23, United States Code, and grant 
administration expenses under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code, 
to remain available until expended, $813,300,800, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account):  Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning 
or execution of programs for which the total obligations in fiscal year 
2024 are in excess of $813,300,800 for programs authorized under 
sections 402, 404, and 405 of title 23, United States Code, and grant 
administration expenses under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code: 
 Provided further, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $378,400,000 shall be for highway safety programs under 
        section 402 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) $353,500,000 shall be for national priority safety 
        programs under section 405 of title 23, United States Code;
            (3) $40,300,000 shall be for the high visibility enforcement 
        program under section 404 of title 23, United States Code; and
            (4) $41,100,800 shall be for grant administrative expenses 
        under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code:

  Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used for 
construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private buildings or 
structures:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds 
made available for national priority safety programs under section 405 
of title 23, United States Code, for impaired driving countermeasures 
(as described in subsection (d) of that section) shall be available for 
technical assistance to the States:  Provided further, That with respect 
to the ``Transfers'' provision under section 405(a)(10) of title 23, 
United States Code, any amounts transferred to increase the amounts made 
available under section 402 shall include the obligation authority for 
such amounts:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Administrator shall notify the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the 
authority granted under the preceding proviso or under section 
405(a)(10) of title 23, United States Code, within 5 days.

       administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140. The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall not 
apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made available 
in previous public laws but only to the extent that the obligation 
authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 141.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code,

[[Page 138 STAT. 328]]

to pay for travel and related expenses for State management reviews and 
to pay for core competency development training and related expenses for 
highway safety staff.

                     Federal Railroad Administration

                          safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $267,799,000, of which $25,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                    railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$54,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
amounts provided under this heading, up to $3,000,000 shall be available 
pursuant to section 20108(d) of title 49, United States Code, for the 
construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and improvements at 
the Transportation Technology Center.

         federal-state partnership for intercity passenger rail

    For necessary expenses related to Federal-state partnership for 
intercity passenger rail grants as authorized by section 24911 of title 
49, United States Code, $75,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
 Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to 2 percent of the 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act for the costs of 
award and project management oversight of grants carried out under title 
49, United States Code.

        consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses related to consolidated rail infrastructure 
and safety improvements grants, as authorized by section 22907 of title 
49, United States Code, $198,957,997, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading in this Act, $98,957,997 shall be made available for the 
purposes, and in amounts, specified for Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending in the table entitled ``Community 
Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided further, That 
requirements under subsections (g) and (l) of section 22907 of title 49, 
United States Code, shall not apply to the preceding 
proviso: <<NOTE: Distribution.>>   Provided further, That any remaining 
funds available after the distribution of the Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending described in this paragraph shall be 
available to the Secretary to distribute as discretionary grants under 
this heading:  Provided further, That for amounts made available under 
this heading in this Act, eligible projects under section 22907(c)(8) of 
title 49, United States Code, shall also include railroad systems 
planning (including the preparation of regional intercity passenger rail 
plans and state rail plans) and railroad project development activities 
(including railroad project planning, preliminary engineering, design, 
environmental

[[Page 138 STAT. 329]]

analysis, feasibility studies, and the development and analysis of 
project alternatives):  Provided further, That section 22905(f) of title 
49, United States Code, shall not apply to amounts made available under 
this heading in this Act for projects that implement or sustain positive 
train control systems otherwise eligible under section 22907(c)(1) of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act for projects selected for 
commuter rail passenger transportation may be transferred by the 
Secretary, after selection, to the appropriate agencies to be 
administered in accordance with chapter 53 of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That for amounts made available under this 
heading in this Act, eligible recipients under section 22907(b)(7) of 
title 49, United States Code, shall include any holding company of a 
Class II railroad or Class III railroad (as those terms are defined in 
section 20102 of title 49, United States Code):  Provided further, That 
section 22907(e)(1)(A) of title 49, United States Code, shall not apply 
to amounts made available under this heading in this Act:  Provided 
further, That section 22907(e)(1)(A) of title 49, United States Code, 
shall not apply to amounts made available under this heading in previous 
fiscal years if such funds are announced in a notice of funding 
opportunity that includes funds made available under this heading in 
this Act:  Provided further, That the preceding proviso shall not apply 
to funds made available under this heading in the Infrastructure 
Investment and Jobs Act (division J of Public Law 117-58):  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Time period.>> unobligated balances remaining 
after 6 years from the date of enactment of this Act may be used for any 
eligible project under section 22907(c) of title 49, United States Code: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may withhold up to 2 percent of 
the amounts made available under this heading in this Act for the costs 
of award and project management oversight of grants carried out under 
title 49, United States Code.

northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the Northeast Corridor as authorized by section 22101(a) of the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), 
$1,141,442,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the amounts made 
available under both this heading in this Act and the ``National Network 
Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' heading in this 
Act to fund the costs of project management and oversight of activities 
authorized by section 22101(c) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
Act (Public Law 117-58):  Provided further, That in addition to the 
project management oversight funds authorized under section 22101(c) of 
the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), the 
Secretary may retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act to fund expenses associated 
with the Northeast Corridor Commission established under section 24905 
of title 49, United States Code.

[[Page 138 STAT. 330]]

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the National Network as authorized by section 22101(b) of the 
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (division B of Public Law 117-
58), $1,286,321,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Secretary may retain up to an additional $3,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading in this Act to fund expenses associated with 
the State-Supported Route Committee established under section 24712 of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading in this Act shall be used by Amtrak to give 
notice under subsection (a) or (c) of section 24706 of title 49, United 
States Code, with respect to long-distance routes (as defined in section 
24102 of title 49, United States Code) on which Amtrak is the sole 
operator on a host railroad's line and a positive train control system 
is not required by law or regulation, or, except in an emergency or 
during maintenance or construction outages impacting such routes, to 
otherwise discontinue, reduce the frequency of, suspend, or 
substantially alter the route of rail service on any portion of such 
route operated in fiscal year 2018, including implementation of service 
permitted by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United States Code, in 
lieu of rail service:  Provided further, That the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may use up to $66,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act for corridor development 
activities as authorized by section 22101(h) of division B of Public Law 
117-58:  Provided further, That $40,000,000 of the amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act shall be for design and 
construction activities to improve the concourse and related 
infrastructure for the station at the major hub of Amtrak's National 
Network.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

                         (including rescissions)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 150.  The amounts made available to the Secretary or to the 
Federal Railroad Administration for the costs of award, administration, 
and project management oversight of financial assistance which are 
administered by the Federal Railroad Administration, in this and prior 
Acts, may be transferred to the Federal Railroad Administration's 
``Financial Assistance Oversight and Technical Assistance'' account for 
the necessary expenses to support the award, administration, project 
management oversight, and technical assistance of financial assistance 
administered by the Federal Railroad Administration, in the same manner 
as appropriated for in this and prior Acts:  Provided, That this section 
shall not apply to amounts that were previously designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 151. <<NOTE: Amtrak. Overtime. Time periods.>> None of the 
funds made available to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation may 
be used to fund any overtime costs in excess of $35,000 for any 
individual employee:  Provided,

[[Page 138 STAT. 331]]

That the <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>> President of Amtrak 
may waive the cap set in the preceding proviso for specific employees 
when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a risk to the 
safety and operational efficiency of the system:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Summary.>> That the President of Amtrak shall 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations no later 
than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a summary of all 
overtime payments incurred by Amtrak for 2023 and the three prior 
calendar years:  Provided further, That such summary shall include the 
total number of employees that received waivers and the total overtime 
payments Amtrak paid to employees receiving waivers for each month for 
2023 and for the three prior calendar years.

    Sec. 152.  None of the funds made available to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation under the headings ``Northeast Corridor Grants to 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' and ``National Network 
Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' may be used to 
reduce the total number of Amtrak Police Department uniformed officers 
patrolling on board passenger trains or at stations, facilities or 
rights-of-way below the staffing level on May 1, 2019.
    Sec. 153.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation in contravention of the 
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2101 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 154.  Of the unobligated balances of funds remaining from--
            (1) ``Northeast Corridor Improvement Program'' account 
        totaling $126,348 appropriated by Public Law 114-113 is hereby 
        permanently rescinded;
            (2) ``Railroad Safety Grants'' account totaling $81,257.66 
        appropriated by Public Law 113-235 is hereby permanently 
        rescinded;
            (3) ``Capital Assistance for High Speed Rail Corridors and 
        Intercity Passenger Rail Service'' account totaling 
        $53,118,096.83 appropriated by Public Law 111-117 is hereby 
        permanently rescinded;
            (4) ``Next Generation High-Speed Rail'' account totaling 
        $94.94 appropriated by Public Law 108-447 is hereby permanently 
        rescinded; and
            (5) ``Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation'' account totaling $678.16 appropriated by Public 
        Law 108-447 is hereby permanently rescinded.

    Sec. 155.  It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) long-distance passenger rail routes provide much-needed 
        transportation access for 4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 
        40 States and are particularly important in rural areas; and
            (2) long-distance passenger rail routes and services should 
        be sustained to ensure connectivity throughout the National 
        Network (as defined in section 24102 of title 49, United States 
        Code).

[[Page 138 STAT. 332]]

                     Federal Transit Administration

                         transit formula grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal public 
transportation assistance program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5334, 5335, 5337, 5339, 
and 5340, section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of 
Public Law 114-94, $13,990,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit 
Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That funds available for the implementation or 
execution of programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 
5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5334, 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, section 
20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of Public Law 114-
94, shall not exceed total obligations of $13,990,000,000 in fiscal year 
2024.

                      transit infrastructure grants

    For an additional amount for ferry boats grants under section 
5307(h) of title 49, United States Code, Tribal technical assistance 
under section 5311(b)(3)(C) of such title, bus testing facilities under 
section 5318 of such title, accelerating the adoption of zero emission 
buses under section 5312 of such title, Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending for projects and activities eligible 
under chapter 53 of such title, and ferry service for rural communities 
under section 71103 of division G of Public Law 117-58, $252,386,844, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the sums provided 
under this heading in this Act--
            (1) $20,000,000 shall be available for ferry boat grants as 
        authorized under section 5307(h) of such title:  Provided, That 
        of the amounts provided under this paragraph, no less than 
        $5,000,000 shall be available for low or zero emission ferries 
        or ferries using electric battery or fuel cell components and 
        the infrastructure to support such ferries;
            (2) $500,000 shall be available for technical assistance and 
        resources to Tribes through the national rural transportation 
        assistance program authorized under section 5311(b)(3)(C) of 
        such title;
            (3) $1,500,000 shall be available for the operation and 
        maintenance of the bus testing facilities selected under section 
        5318 of such title;
            (4) $206,817,976 shall be available for the purposes, and in 
        amounts, specified for Community Project Funding/Congressionally 
        Directed Spending in the table entitled ``Community Project 
        Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included in the 
        explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
        preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided, That 
        unless <<NOTE: Applicability. Approval.>> otherwise specified, 
        applicable requirements under chapter 53 of title 49, United 
        States Code, shall apply to

[[Page 138 STAT. 333]]

        amounts made available in this paragraph, except that the 
        Federal share of the costs for a project in this paragraph shall 
        be in an amount equal to 80 percent of the net costs of the 
        project, unless the Secretary approves a higher maximum Federal 
        share of the net costs of the project consistent with 
        administration of similar projects funded under chapter 53 of 
        title 49, United States Code;
            (5) $20,000,000 shall be available for ferry service for 
        rural communities under section 71103 of division G of Public 
        Law 117-58:  Provided, That for amounts made available in this 
        paragraph, notwithstanding section 71103(a)(2)(B), eligible 
        service shall include passenger ferry service that serves at 
        least two rural areas with a single segment over 15 miles 
        between the two rural areas and is not otherwise eligible under 
        section 5307(h) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided 
        further, That entities that provide eligible service pursuant to 
        the preceding proviso may use amounts made available in this 
        paragraph for public transportation capital projects to support 
        any ferry service between two rural areas; and
            (6) $3,568,868 shall be available to support technical 
        assistance, research, demonstration, or deployment activities or 
        projects to accelerate the adoption of zero emission buses in 
        public transit as authorized under section 5312 of title 49, 
        United States Code:

  Provided further, That amounts made available under this heading in 
this Act shall be derived from the general fund:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading in this Act shall not be 
subject to any limitation on obligations for transit programs set forth 
in this or any other Act.

                    technical assistance and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 5314 of title 49, United 
States Code, $7,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  
Provided, That the assistance provided under this heading does not 
duplicate the activities of section 5311(b) or section 5312 of title 49, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That amounts made available under 
this heading are in addition to any other amounts made available for 
such purposes:  Provided further, That amounts made available under this 
heading shall not be subject to any limitation on obligations set forth 
in this or any other Act.

                        capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out fixed guideway capital 
investment grants under section 5309 of title 49, United States Code, 
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act 
(Public Law 114-94), $2,205,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
 Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading in this 
Act--
            (1) $2,130,950,000 shall be available for projects 
        authorized under section 5309(d) of title 49, United States 
        Code; and
            (2) up to $52,000,000 shall be available for projects 
        authorized under section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface 
        Transportation Act:

[[Page 138 STAT. 334]]

  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Continuation.>> the Secretary shall 
continue to administer the capital investment grants program in 
accordance with the procedural and substantive requirements of section 
5309 of title 49, United States Code, and of section 3005(b) of the 
Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act:  Provided further, That 
projects that receive a grant agreement under the expedited project 
delivery for capital investment grants pilot program under section 
3005(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act shall be 
deemed eligible for funding provided for projects under section 5309 of 
title 49, United States Code, without further evaluation or rating under 
such section:  Provided further, That such funding shall not exceed the 
Federal share under section 3005(b):  Provided further, That for funds 
made available under this heading in division J of Public Law 117-58 the 
second through sixth provisos shall be treated as inapplicable for 
fiscal year 2024:  Provided further, That amounts repurposed pursuant to 
the preceding proviso that were previously designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the 
budget are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4001(a)(1) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022, and to legislation 
establishing fiscal year 2024 budget enforcement in the House of 
Representatives.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of the Passenger Rail 
Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-432), 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for each 
specific project:  Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Determination.>>  
Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
Authority has placed the highest priority on those investments that will 
improve the safety of the system before approving such grants.

        administrative provisions--federal transit administration

                         (including rescission)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 49 
U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any other 
authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading 
``Capital Investment Grants'' of the Federal Transit Administration for 
projects specified in this Act not obligated by September 30, 2027, and 
other recoveries, shall be directed to projects eligible to use the 
funds for the purposes for which they were originally provided.

    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2023, under any section of

[[Page 138 STAT. 335]]

chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, that remain available for 
expenditure, may be transferred to and administered under the most 
recent appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 163.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to adjust apportionments or withhold funds from 
apportionments pursuant to section 9503(e)(4) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9503(e)(4)).
    Sec. 164.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to impede or hinder project advancement or approval 
for any project seeking a Federal contribution from the capital 
investment grants program of greater than 40 percent of project costs as 
authorized under section 5309 of title 49, United States Code.
    Sec. 165.  Of the unobligated balances made available before October 
1, 2013 for ``Transit Research'' in Treasury Account 69-X-1137, $977,955 
is hereby permanently rescinded.

         Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Great <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation is hereby authorized to make such expenditures, 
within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available to the 
Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such contracts and 
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 
section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be necessary in 
carrying out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the 
current fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                     (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital infrastructure activities on portions of the St. Lawrence Seaway 
owned, operated, and maintained by the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation, $40,288,000, to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to section 210 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2238):  Provided, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading, not less than $16,300,000 shall be 
for the seaway infrastructure program.

                         Maritime Administration

                        maritime security program

                         (including rescission)

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag merchant 
fleet as authorized under chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code, 
to serve the national security needs of the United States, $318,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
$17,000,000 are hereby permanently rescinded.

[[Page 138 STAT. 336]]

                          cable security fleet

    For the cable security fleet program, as authorized under chapter 
532 of title 46, United States Code, $10,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                         tanker security program

                         (including rescission)

    For Tanker Security Fleet payments, as authorized under section 
53406 of title 46, United States Code, $60,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That funds appropriated for the tanker 
security fleet program in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022 
(Public Law 117-103) shall be available as authorized under section 
53406 of title 46, United States Code, and for the Secretary to timely 
reimburse each program participant up to $2,500,000 for each of its 
vessels covered by an operating agreement under section 53403 of title 
46, United States Code, for verifiable training and other costs incurred 
to ensure that mariners on such vessels are fully qualified to meet the 
specialized requirements to serve on product tank vessels:  Provided 
further, That of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations 
available under this heading, $21,000,000 are hereby permanently 
rescinded.

                         operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $267,775,000:  Provided, That of the sums 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $92,729,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2025, for the operations of the United States Merchant Marine 
        Academy;
            (2) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        facilities maintenance and repair, and equipment, at the United 
        States Merchant Marine Academy;
            (3) $70,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital improvements at the United States Merchant Marine 
        Academy;
            (4) $7,500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2025, for the maritime environmental and technical assistance 
        program authorized under section 50307 of title 46, United 
        States Code; and
            (5) $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for 
        the United States marine highway program to make grants for the 
        purposes authorized under section 55601 of title 46, United 
        States Code:

  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports. Sexual assault and 
harassment.>> the Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall 
transmit to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the annual 
report on sexual assault and sexual harassment at the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3510 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2017 (46 U.S.C. 
51318):  Provided further, That available balances under this heading 
for the short sea transportation program or America's marine highway 
program (now known as the United States marine highway program) from 
prior year recoveries shall be available to carry out activities 
authorized under section 55601 of title 46, United States Code.

[[Page 138 STAT. 337]]

                    state maritime academy operations

    For necessary expenses of operations, support, and training 
activities for State Maritime Academies, $125,788,000:  Provided, That 
of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        maintenance, repair, and life extension of training ships at the 
        State Maritime Academies;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>> $86,588,000 shall remain 
        available until expended for the national security multi-mission 
        vessel program, including funds for construction, planning, 
        administration, and design of school ships and, as determined by 
        the Secretary, necessary expenses to design, plan, construct 
        infrastructure, and purchase equipment necessary to berth such 
        ships, of which up to $8,900,000 may be used for expenses 
        related to the oversight and management of school ships to 
        include the purchase of equipment and the repair and maintenance 
        of training vessels:  Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That 
        such funds may be used to reimburse State Maritime Academies for 
        costs incurred prior to the date of enactment of this Act;
            (3) $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2028, for the student incentive program;
            (4) $8,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training ship fuel assistance; and
            (5) $6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2025, for direct payments for State Maritime Academies.

                      assistance to small shipyards

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under section 
54101 of title 46, United States Code, $8,750,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                              ship disposal

                         (including rescission)

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
unobligated balances from prior year appropriations made available under 
this heading, $3,664,000 are hereby permanently rescinded.

           maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $53,586,000, of which $50,586,000 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, 
including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for 
administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for 
``Maritime Administration--Operations and Training''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 338]]

                 port infrastructure development program

    To make grants to improve port facilities as authorized under 
section 54301 of title 46, United States Code, and section 3501(a)(9) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2024 (Public Law 
118-31), $120,460,124, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of the sums appropriated under this heading in this Act--
            (1) $50,000,000 shall be for projects for coastal seaports, 
        inland river ports, or Great Lakes ports, of which not less than 
        $42,000,000 shall be for coastal seaports or Great Lakes ports:  
        Provided, That for grants awarded under this paragraph in this 
        Act, the minimum grant size shall be $1,000,000; and
            (2) $70,460,124 shall be for the purposes, and in the 
        amounts, specified for Community Project Funding included in the 
        table entitled ``Community Project Funding/Congressionally 
        Directed Spending'' included in the explanatory statement 
        described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
        this consolidated Act).

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in 
addition to any existing authority, the Maritime Administration is 
authorized to furnish utilities and services and make necessary repairs 
in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving 
Government property under control of the Maritime Administration:  
Provided, That payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That rental payments under any such 
lease, contract, or occupancy for items other than such utilities, 
services, or repairs shall be deposited into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.
    Sec. 171.  There is hereby appropriated $12,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for expenses necessary for the Secretary of 
Transportation to enter into a contract to complete the designs of ten 
sealift vessels for the National Defense Reserve Fleet.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $31,681,000, of which $4,500,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2026.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 
$74,556,000, of which $12,070,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2026, of which $1,000,000 shall be made available for carrying out 
section 5107(i) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided, That up to 
$800,000 in fees collected under section 5108(g) of title 49, United 
States Code, shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as 
offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received from 
States, counties,

[[Page 138 STAT. 339]]

municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                             pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to carry out a pipeline safety program, as 
authorized by section 60107 of title 49, United States Code, and to 
discharge the pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act 
of 1990 (Public Law 101-380), $218,186,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, of which $30,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil 
Spill Liability Trust Fund; of which $180,786,000 shall be derived from 
the Pipeline Safety Fund; of which $400,000 shall be derived from the 
fees collected under section 60303 of title 49, United States Code, and 
deposited in the Liquefied Natural Gas Siting Account for compliance 
reviews of liquefied natural gas facilities; and of which $7,000,000 
shall be derived from fees collected under section 60302 of title 49, 
United States Code, and deposited in the Underground Natural Gas Storage 
Facility Safety Account for the purpose of carrying out section 60141 of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided, That not less than $1,058,000 
of the amounts made available under this heading shall be for the one-
call state grant program:  Provided further, That 
any <<NOTE: Requirements. Notifications. Deadline.>>  amounts made 
available under this heading in this Act or in prior Acts for research 
contracts, grants, cooperative agreements or research other transactions 
agreements (OTAs) shall require written notification to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full business days 
before such research contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or 
research OTAs are announced by the Department of Transportation:  
Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Secretary shall transmit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the report on 
pipeline safety testing enhancement as required pursuant to section 105 
of the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety 
Act of 2020 (division R of Public Law 116-260):  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Research plan. Approvals.>>  Secretary may obligate amounts 
made available under this heading to engineer, erect, alter, and repair 
buildings or make any other public improvements for research facilities 
at the Transportation Technology Center after the Secretary submits an 
updated research plan and the report in the preceding proviso to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and after such plan and 
report in the preceding proviso are approved by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.

                      emergency preparedness grants

                       (limitation on obligations)

                      (emergency preparedness fund)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Emergency Preparedness 
Grants program, not more than $46,825,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2026, from amounts made available

[[Page 138 STAT. 340]]

by section 5116(h) and subsections (b) and (c) of section 5128 of title 
49, United States Code:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
5116(h)(4) of title 49, United States Code, not more than 4 percent of 
the amounts made available from this account shall be available to pay 
the administrative costs of carrying out sections 5116, 5107(e), and 
5108(g)(2) of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c) of section 5128 of title 49, 
United States Code, and the limitation on obligations provided under 
this heading, prior year recoveries recognized in the current year shall 
be available to develop and deliver hazardous materials emergency 
response training for emergency responders, including response 
activities for the transportation of crude oil, ethanol, flammable 
liquids, and other hazardous commodities by rail, consistent with 
National Fire Protection Association standards, and to make such 
training available through an electronic format:  Provided further, That 
the prior year recoveries made available under this heading shall also 
be available to carry out sections 5116(a)(1)(C), 5116(h), 5116(i), 
5116(j), and 5107(e) of title 49, United States Code.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$116,452,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department business; 
and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 
5902 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations to the 
Department and its operating administrations shall be available for the 
purchase, maintenance, operation, and deployment of unmanned aircraft 
systems that advance the missions of the Department of Transportation or 
an operating administration of the Department of Transportation.
    (c) Any unmanned aircraft system purchased, procured, or contracted 
for by the Department prior to the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be deemed authorized by Congress as if this provision was in effect when 
the system was purchased, procured, or contracted for.
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for 
an Executive Level IV.

[[Page 138 STAT. 341]]

    Sec. 182. (a) No recipient of amounts made available by this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in section 2725(3) of 
title 18, United States Code) obtained by a State department of motor 
vehicles in connection with a motor vehicle record as defined in section 
2725(1) of title 18, United States Code, except as provided in section 
2721 of title 18, United States Code, for a use permitted under section 
2721 of title 18, United States Code.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not withhold 
amounts made available by this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 183.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for salaries and expenses of more than 125 political and 
Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation:  Provided, 
That none of the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on 
temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 184.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for 
State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 
section 20105 of title 49, United States Code.
    Sec. 
185. <<NOTE: Loans. Contracts. Grants. Notifications. Deadline.>> None 
of the funds made available by this Act or in title VIII of division J 
of Public Law 117-58 to the Department of Transportation may be used to 
make a loan, loan guarantee, line of credit, letter of intent, federally 
funded cooperative agreement, full funding grant agreement, or 
discretionary grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
business days before any project competitively selected to receive any 
discretionary grant award, letter of intent, loan commitment, loan 
guarantee commitment, line of credit commitment, federally funded 
cooperative agreement, or full funding grant agreement is announced by 
the Department or its operating administrations: <<NOTE: List.>>   
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall provide the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations with a comprehensive list of all 
such loans, loan guarantees, lines of credit, letters of intent, 
federally funded cooperative agreements, full funding grant agreements, 
and discretionary grants prior to the notification required under the 
preceding proviso: <<NOTE: Notifications.>>  Provided further, That the 
Secretary gives concurrent notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
emergency relief program:  Provided further, That no notification shall 
involve funds that are not available for obligation.

    Sec. 186.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees, and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations of 
the Department of Transportation and allocated to organizational units 
of the Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria 
and such funds shall be available until expended.

[[Page 138 STAT. 342]]

    Sec. 187. <<NOTE: Reprogramming notice. Approvals.>> Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, if any funds provided by or limited by this 
Act are subject to a reprogramming action that requires notice to be 
provided to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
transmission of such reprogramming notice shall be provided solely to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, and such 
reprogramming action shall be approved or denied solely by the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations: <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Provided, That 
the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to other 
congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days after the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 188.  Funds appropriated by this Act to the operating 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for the 
costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when such 
amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased to 
provide a direct benefit to the applicable operating administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 189.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 190. <<NOTE: Contracts. Certification.>> The Department of 
Transportation may use funds provided by this Act, or any other Act, to 
assist a contract under title 49 or 23 of the United States Code 
utilizing geographic, economic, or any other hiring preference not 
otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, regulation, policy or 
other measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal Highway 
Administration or Federal Transit Administration grant from imposing 
such hiring preference on a contract or construction project with which 
the Department of Transportation is assisting, only if the grant 
recipient certifies the following:
            (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
        pool of readily available but unemployed individuals possessing 
        the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work that the 
        contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
            (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
        provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor does 
        not displace any of its existing employees in order to satisfy 
        such hiring preference; and
            (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
        delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does not 
        delay or displace any transportation project in the applicable 
        statewide transportation improvement program or transportation 
        improvement program.

    Sec. 191. <<NOTE: Coordination. Contracts. Updates.>> The Secretary 
of Transportation shall coordinate with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to ensure that best practices for Industrial Control Systems 
Procurement are up-to-date and shall ensure that systems procured with 
funds provided under this title were procured using such practices.

    Sec. 192.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the American Security Drone Act of

[[Page 138 STAT. 343]]

2023 (subtitle B of title XVIII of division A of Public Law 118-31).
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2024''.






__________

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 344]]

TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations 
Act, 2024.>>  II

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                      Management and Administration

                            executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the 
Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $19,400,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$25,000 of the amount made available under this heading shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (referred to 
in this title as ``the Secretary'') for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $686,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  
Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $91,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Chief Financial Officer;
            (2) $129,700,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        General Counsel, of which not less than $21,700,000 shall be for 
        the Departmental Enforcement Center;
            (3) $239,000,000 shall be available for the Office of 
        Administration;
            (4) $52,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Chief Human Capital Officer;
            (5) $32,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Chief Procurement Officer;
            (6) $68,000,000 shall be available for the Office of Field 
        Policy and Management;
            (7) $4,700,000 shall be available for the Office of 
        Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity; and
            (8) $70,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
        Chief Information Officer:

  Provided further, That funds made available under this heading may be 
used for necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department, not otherwise provided for, including purchase of uniforms, 
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 
5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated under this heading may be used for advertising and 
promotional activities that directly support program activities funded 
in this title.

                             program offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Program Offices, 
$1,097,164,130, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, 
That of the sums appropriated under this heading--

[[Page 138 STAT. 345]]

            (1) $286,000,000 shall be available for the Office of Public 
        and Indian Housing;
            (2) $168,514,130 shall be available for the Office of 
        Community Planning and Development;
            (3) $487,550,000 shall be available for the Office of 
        Housing;
            (4) $41,000,000 shall be available for the Office of Policy 
        Development and Research;
            (5) $102,900,000 shall be available for the Office of Fair 
        Housing and Equal Opportunity; and
            (6) $11,200,000 shall be available for the Office of Lead 
        Hazard Control and Healthy Homes.

                          working capital fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Fund''), pursuant, 
in part, to section 7(f) of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts transferred, including 
reimbursements pursuant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this heading 
shall be available only for Federal shared services used by offices and 
agencies of the Department, and for any such portion of any office or 
agency's printing, records management, space renovation, furniture, or 
supply services the Secretary has determined shall be provided through 
the Fund, and the operational expenses of the Fund:  Provided, That 
amounts within the Fund shall not be available to provide services not 
specifically authorized under this heading: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   
Provided further, That upon a determination by the Secretary that any 
other service (or portion thereof) authorized under this heading shall 
be provided through the Fund, amounts made available in this title for 
salaries and expenses under the headings ``Executive Offices'', 
``Administrative Support Offices'', ``Program Offices'', and 
``Government National Mortgage Association'', for such services shall be 
transferred to the Fund, to remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Advance notice.>> Secretary shall notify the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of its plans for executing 
such transfers at least 15 days in advance of such transfers.

                        Public and Indian Housing

tenant-based <<NOTE: Vouchers.>>  rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (in this title ``the Act''), 
not otherwise provided for, $28,386,831,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available on October 1, 2023 (in addition to 
the $4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading that shall 
be available on October 1, 2023), of which $6,000,000,000 is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, and $4,000,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available on October 1, 2024:  Provided, That 
of the sums appropriated under this heading--

[[Page 138 STAT. 346]]

            (1) $28,490,955,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers:  Provided, <<NOTE: Notice. Federal Register, 
        publication.>> That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        from amounts provided under this paragraph and any carryover, 
        the Secretary for the calendar year 2024 funding cycle shall 
        provide renewal funding for each public housing agency based on 
        validated voucher management system (VMS) leasing and cost data 
        for the prior calendar year and by applying an inflation factor 
        as established by the Secretary, by notice published in the 
        Federal Register, and by making any necessary adjustments for 
        the costs associated with the first-time renewal of vouchers 
        under this paragraph including tenant protection and Choice 
        Neighborhoods vouchers:  Provided further, That none of the 
        funds provided under this paragraph may be used to fund a total 
        number of unit months under lease which exceeds a public housing 
        agency's authorized level of units under contract, except for 
        public housing agencies participating in the Moving to Work 
        (MTW) demonstration, which are instead governed in accordance 
        with the requirements of the MTW demonstration program or their 
        MTW agreements, if any:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
        shall, to the extent necessary to stay within the amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph), prorate each public housing agency's 
        allocation otherwise established pursuant to this paragraph:  
        Provided further, That except <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  
        as provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing 
        agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method described 
        above, and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies of 
        their annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment of 
        this Act or March 1, 2024:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary <<NOTE: Extension. Notification. Time period.>> may 
        extend the notification period only after the House and Senate 
        Committees on Appropriations are notified at least 10 business 
        days in advance of the extension:  Provided further, That public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall be 
        funded in accordance with the requirements of the MTW 
        demonstration program or their MTW agreements, if any, and shall 
        be subject to the same pro rata adjustments under the preceding 
        provisos:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>> the 
        Secretary may offset public housing agencies' calendar year 2024 
        allocations based on the excess amounts of public housing 
        agencies' net restricted assets accounts, including HUD-held 
        programmatic reserves (in accordance with VMS data in calendar 
        year 2023 that is verifiable and complete), as determined by the 
        Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That 
        public housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration 
        shall also be subject to the offset, as determined by the 
        Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the single fund budget 
        authority provisions of their MTW agreements, from the agencies' 
        calendar year 2024 MTW funding allocation:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That the Secretary shall use 
        any offset referred to in the preceding two provisos throughout 
        the calendar year to prevent the termination of rental

[[Page 138 STAT. 347]]

        assistance for families as the result of insufficient funding, 
        as determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
        proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided further, 
        That up to $200,000,000 shall be available only:
                    (A) for adjustments in the allocations for public 
                housing agencies, after application for an adjustment by 
                a public housing agency that experienced a significant 
                increase, as determined by the Secretary, in renewal 
                costs of vouchers resulting from unforeseen 
                circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) of 
                the Act;
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>> for vouchers that were 
                not in use during the previous 12-month period in order 
                to be available to meet a commitment pursuant to section 
                8(o)(13) of the Act, or an adjustment for a funding 
                obligation not yet expended in the previous calendar 
                year for a MTW-eligible activity to develop affordable 
                housing for an agency added to the MTW demonstration 
                under the expansion authority provided in section 239 of 
                the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
                Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division L of 
                Public Law 114-113);
                    (C) for adjustments for costs associated with HUD-
                Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers;
                    (D) <<NOTE: Determination.>> for public housing 
                agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
                measures, as determined by the Secretary, would 
                otherwise be required to terminate rental assistance for 
                families as a result of insufficient funding;
                    (E) for adjustments in the allocations for public 
                housing agencies that--
                          (i) are leasing a lower-than-average 
                      percentage of their authorized vouchers,
                          (ii) have low amounts of budget authority in 
                      their net restricted assets accounts and HUD-held 
                      programmatic reserves, relative to other agencies, 
                      and
                          (iii) are not participating in the Moving to 
                      Work demonstration, to enable such agencies to 
                      lease more vouchers;
                    (F) for withheld payments in accordance with section 
                8(o)(8)(A)(ii) of the Act for months in the previous 
                calendar year that were subsequently paid by the public 
                housing agency after the agency's actual costs were 
                validated; and
                    (G) for public housing agencies that have 
                experienced increased costs or loss of units in an area 
                for which the President declared a disaster under title 
                IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
                Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq.):
          Provided further, <<NOTE: Allocation. Determination.>> That 
        the Secretary shall allocate amounts under the preceding proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $337,000,000 shall be available for section 8 rental 
        assistance for relocation and replacement of housing units that 
        are demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 8, 
        relocation of witnesses (including victims of violent crimes) in 
        connection with efforts to combat crime in public and assisted 
        housing pursuant to a request from a law enforcement or 
        prosecution agency, enhanced vouchers under any provision

[[Page 138 STAT. 348]]

        of law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the 
        Act, Choice Neighborhood vouchers, mandatory and voluntary 
        conversions, and tenant protection assistance including 
        replacement and relocation assistance or for project-based 
        assistance to prevent the displacement of unassisted elderly 
        tenants currently residing in section 202 properties financed 
        between 1959 and 1974 that are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 
        106-569, as amended, or under the authority as provided under 
        this Act:  Provided, That when a public housing development is 
        submitted for demolition or disposition under section 18 of the 
        Act, the Secretary may provide section 8 rental assistance when 
        the units pose an imminent health and safety risk to residents:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary may provide section 8 
        rental assistance from amounts made available under this 
        paragraph for units assisted under a project-based subsidy 
        contract funded under the ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'' 
        heading under this title where the owner has received a Notice 
        of Default and the units pose an imminent health and safety risk 
        to residents:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
        available under this paragraph, no less than $5,000,000 may be 
        available to provide tenant protection assistance, not otherwise 
        provided under this paragraph, to residents residing in low 
        vacancy areas and who may have to pay rents greater than 30 
        percent of household income, as the result of: (A) the maturity 
        of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or section 202 loan that requires the 
        permission of the Secretary prior to loan prepayment; (B) the 
        expiration of a rental assistance contract for which the tenants 
        are not eligible for enhanced voucher or tenant protection 
        assistance under existing law; or (C) the expiration of 
        affordability restrictions accompanying a mortgage or 
        preservation program administered by the Secretary:  Provided 
        further, That such tenant protection assistance made available 
        under the preceding proviso may be provided under the authority 
        of section 8(t) or section 8(o)(13) of the Act:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Notice.>> That any tenant protection voucher 
        made available from amounts under this paragraph shall not be 
        reissued by any public housing agency, except the replacement 
        vouchers as defined by the Secretary by notice, when the initial 
        family that received any such voucher no longer receives such 
        voucher, and the authority for any public housing agency to 
        issue any such voucher shall cease to exist:  Provided further, 
        That <<NOTE: Time period.>> the Secretary may only provide 
        replacement vouchers for units that were occupied within the 
        previous 24 months that cease to be available as assisted 
        housing, subject only to the availability of funds;
            (3) $2,770,935,000 shall be available for administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up to 
        $30,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate to 
        public housing agencies that need additional funds to administer 
        their section 8 programs, including fees associated with section 
        8 tenant protection rental assistance, the administration of 
        disaster related vouchers, HUD-VASH vouchers, and other special 
        purpose incremental vouchers:  Provided, That no less than 
        $2,740,935,000 of the amount provided in this paragraph shall be 
        allocated to public housing agencies for the calendar year 2024 
        funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the Act (and

[[Page 138 STAT. 349]]

        related appropriation Act provisions) as in effect immediately 
        before the enactment of the Quality Housing and Work 
        Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276):  Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this paragraph 
        are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under the 
        preceding proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the preceding proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
        appropriated under this heading from prior fiscal years, 
        excluding special purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes 
        for which such amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, 
        That all public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall be funded in accordance with the 
        requirements of the MTW demonstration program or their MTW 
        agreements, if any, and shall be subject to the same uniform 
        percentage decrease as under the preceding proviso:  Provided 
        further, That amounts provided under this paragraph shall be 
        only for activities related to the provision of tenant-based 
        rental assistance authorized under section 8, including related 
        development activities;
            (4) $742,941,000 shall be available for the renewal of 
        tenant-based assistance contracts under section 811 of the 
        Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
        8013), including necessary administrative expenses:  Provided, 
        That administrative and other expenses of public housing 
        agencies in administering the special purpose vouchers in this 
        paragraph shall be funded under the same terms and be subject to 
        the same pro rata reduction as the percent decrease for 
        administrative and other expenses to public housing agencies 
        under paragraph (3) of this heading:  Provided further, That up 
        to $10,000,000 shall be available only--
                    (A) for adjustments in the allocation for public 
                housing agencies, after applications for an adjustment 
                by a public housing agency that experienced a 
                significant increase, as determined by the Secretary, in 
                Mainstream renewal costs resulting from unforeseen 
                circumstances; and
                    (B) for public housing agencies that despite taking 
                reasonable cost savings measures, as determined by the 
                Secretary, would otherwise be required to terminate the 
                rental assistance for Mainstream families as a result of 
                insufficient funding:
          Provided further, <<NOTE: Allocation. Determination.>> That 
        the Secretary shall allocate amounts under the preceding proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
        further, That upon turnover, section 811 special purpose 
        vouchers funded under this heading in this or prior Acts, or 
        under any other heading in prior Acts, shall be provided to non-
        elderly persons with disabilities;
            (5) of the amounts provided under paragraph (1), up to 
        $7,500,000 shall be available for rental assistance and 
        associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VASH to serve 
        Native American veterans that are homeless or at-risk of 
        homelessness living on or near a reservation or other Indian 
        areas:  Provided, That such <<NOTE: Grants.>> amount shall be 
        made available for renewal grants to recipients that received 
        assistance under prior Acts under

[[Page 138 STAT. 350]]

        the Tribal HUD-VASH program:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Criteria. Data.>> That the Secretary shall be 
        authorized to specify criteria for renewal grants, including 
        data on the utilization of assistance reported by grant 
        recipients:  Provided further, That such assistance shall be 
        administered in accordance with program requirements under the 
        Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 
        1996 and modeled after the HUD-VASH program:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Requirements.>> That the 
        Secretary shall be authorized to waive, or specify alternative 
        requirements for any provision of any statute or regulation that 
        the Secretary administers in connection with the use of funds 
        made available under this paragraph (except for requirements 
        related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and 
        the environment), upon a finding by the Secretary that any such 
        waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the 
        effective delivery and administration of such assistance:  
        Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports. Data.>> That grant recipients 
        shall report to the Secretary on utilization of such rental 
        assistance and other program data, as prescribed by the 
        Secretary:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Reallocation. Determination.>> That the 
        Secretary may reallocate, as determined by the Secretary, 
        amounts returned or recaptured from awards under the Tribal HUD-
        VASH program under prior Acts to existing recipients under the 
        Tribal HUD-VASH program;
            (6) $15,000,000 shall be available for incremental rental 
        voucher assistance for use through a supported housing program 
        administered in conjunction with the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development shall make such funding available, 
        notwithstanding section 203 (competition provision) of this 
        title, to public housing agencies that partner with eligible VA 
        Medical Centers or other entities as designated by the Secretary 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical 
        need for such assistance as identified by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, public housing agency 
        administrative performance, and other factors as specified by 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs:  
        Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Requirements.>> That 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or 
        specify alternative requirements for (in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs), any provision 
        of any statute or regulation that the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development administers in connection with the use of 
        funds made available under this paragraph (except for 
        requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor 
        standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the Secretary 
        that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary 
        for the effective delivery and administration of such voucher 
        assistance:  Provided further, 
        That <<NOTE: Continuation. Veterans.>> assistance made available 
        under this paragraph shall continue to remain available for 
        homeless veterans upon turn-over:  Provided further, That of the 
        total amount made available under this paragraph, up to 
        $10,000,000 may be for additional fees established by and 
        allocated pursuant to a method determined by the Secretary for 
        administrative and other expenses (including those eligible 
        activities defined by notice to facilitate leasing, such as 
        security deposit assistance and costs related

[[Page 138 STAT. 351]]

        to the retention and support of participating owners) of public 
        housing agencies in administering HUD-VASH vouchers;
            (7) $30,000,000 shall be available for the family 
        unification program as authorized under section 8(x) of the Act: 
         Provided, That the <<NOTE: Continuations.>> amounts made 
        available under this paragraph are provided as follows:
                    (A) $5,000,000 shall be available for new 
                incremental voucher assistance, which shall continue to 
                remain available for family unification upon turnover; 
                and
                    (B) $25,000,000 shall be available for new 
                incremental voucher assistance to assist eligible youth 
                as defined by such section 8(x)(2)(B) of the Act, which 
                shall continue to remain available for such eligible 
                youth upon turnover:  Provided, That such amounts shall 
                be available on a noncompetitive basis to public housing 
                agencies that partner with public child welfare agencies 
                to identify such eligible youth, that request such 
                assistance to timely assist such eligible youth, and 
                that meet any other criteria as specified by the 
                Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Review.>> That the 
                Secretary shall review utilization of such assistance 
                and assistance originating from appropriations made 
                available for youth under this heading in any prior Act 
                that the Secretary made available on a noncompetitive 
                basis, at an interval to be determined by the Secretary, 
                and unutilized voucher assistance that is no longer 
                needed based on such review shall be recaptured by the 
                Secretary and reallocated pursuant to the preceding 
                proviso:
          Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification. Reallocation.>> Tha
        t any public housing agency administering new incremental 
        voucher assistance originating from appropriations made 
        available for the family unification program under this heading 
        in this or any prior Act that the Secretary made available on a 
        competitive basis that determines it no longer has an identified 
        need for such assistance upon turnover shall notify the 
        Secretary, and the Secretary shall recapture such assistance 
        from the agency and reallocate it to any other public housing 
        agency or agencies based on need for voucher assistance in 
        connection with such specified program or eligible youth, as 
        applicable; and
            (8) the Secretary shall separately track all special purpose 
        vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                         (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2024 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior fiscal years that 
have been terminated shall be rescinded:  Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section

[[Page 138 STAT. 352]]

8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 1975 through 
fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of additional new 
budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is hereby 
appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the purposes set 
forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise available.

                           public housing fund

    For 2024 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)) (the ``Act''), 
and to carry out capital and management activities for public housing 
agencies, as authorized under section 9(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
1437g(d)), $8,810,784,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027: 
 Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $5,475,784,000 shall be available for the Secretary to 
        allocate pursuant to the Operating Fund formula at part 990 of 
        title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, for 2024 payments;
            (2) $25,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to 
        allocate pursuant to a need-based application process 
        notwithstanding section 203 of this title and not subject to 
        such Operating Fund formula to public housing agencies that 
        experience, or are at risk of, financial shortfalls, as 
        determined by the Secretary:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Distribution.>> That after all such shortfall 
        needs are met, the Secretary may distribute any remaining funds 
        to all public housing agencies on a pro-rata basis pursuant to 
        such Operating Fund formula;
            (3) $3,200,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to 
        allocate pursuant to the Capital Fund formula at section 905.400 
        of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations:  Provided, That for 
        funds provided under this paragraph, the limitation in section 
        9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 percent:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>> That the Secretary may 
        waive the limitation in the preceding proviso to allow public 
        housing agencies to fund activities authorized under section 
        9(e)(1)(C) of the Act:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary 
        shall notify public housing agencies requesting waivers under 
        the preceding proviso if the request is approved or denied 
        within 14 days of submitting the request:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Bonus awards.>> That from the funds made 
        available under this paragraph, the Secretary shall provide 
        bonus awards in fiscal year 2024 to public housing agencies that 
        are designated high performers:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Department 
        shall notify public housing agencies of their formula allocation 
        within 60 days of enactment of this Act;
            (4) $30,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
        grants, notwithstanding section 203 of this title, to public 
        housing agencies for emergency capital needs, including safety 
        and security measures necessary to address crime and drug-
        related activity, as well as needs resulting from unforeseen or 
        unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters excluding 
        Presidentially declared emergencies and natural disasters under 
        the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2024:  Provided, 
        That of the amount made available under this paragraph, not less 
        than $10,000,000 shall be for safety and security

[[Page 138 STAT. 353]]

        measures:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective 
        date. Allocation.>> That in addition to the amount in the 
        preceding proviso for such safety and security measures, any 
        amounts that remain available, after all applications received 
        on or before September 30, 2025, for emergency capital needs 
        have been processed, shall be allocated to public housing 
        agencies for such safety and security measures;
            (5) $65,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants to 
        public housing agencies to evaluate and reduce residential 
        health hazards in public housing, including lead-based paint (by 
        carrying out the activities of risk assessments, abatement, and 
        interim controls, as those terms are defined in section 1004 of 
        the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 
        (42 U.S.C. 4851b)), carbon monoxide, mold, radon, and fire 
        safety:  Provided, That not less than $25,000,000 of the amounts 
        provided under this paragraph shall be awarded for evaluating 
        and reducing lead-based paint hazards, except that if such 
        amount is undersubscribed any remaining amounts may be awarded 
        to qualified applicants for other purposes under this paragraph: 
         Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, a 
        grant under this paragraph shall be considered funds for 
        projects or activities under title I of the Act for purposes of 
        section 26 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to 
        the regulations implementing such section; and
            (6) $15,000,000 shall be available to support the costs of 
        administrative and judicial receiverships and for competitive 
        grants to PHAs in receivership, designated troubled or 
        substandard, or otherwise at risk, as determined by the 
        Secretary, for costs associated with public housing asset 
        improvement, in addition to other amounts for that purpose 
        provided under any heading under this title:

  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
regulation, during fiscal year 2024, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may not delegate to any Department official other than the 
Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian 
Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of section 9(j) of the Act 
regarding the extension of the time periods under such section:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That for purposes of such 
section 9(j), the term ``obligate'' means, with respect to amounts, that 
the amounts are subject to a binding agreement that will result in 
outlays, immediately or in the future.

            assisted housing inspections and risk assessments

    For the Department's inspection and assessment programs, including 
travel, training, and program support contracts, $50,000,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That unobligated 
balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Public Housing Fund'' to support 
ongoing public housing financial and physical assessment activities 
shall be available for the purposes authorized under this heading in 
addition to the purposes for which such funds originally were 
appropriated.

                     choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the choice neighborhoods initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of

[[Page 138 STAT. 354]]

1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v) (the ``Act'') unless otherwise specified under 
this heading), for transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement 
housing needs of both public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform 
neighborhoods of poverty into functioning, sustainable, mixed-income 
neighborhoods with appropriate services, schools, public assets, 
transportation, and access to jobs, $75,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2028:  Provided, That grant funds may be used for 
resident and community services, community development, and affordable 
housing needs in the community, and for conversion of vacant or 
foreclosed properties to affordable housing:  Provided further, That the 
use of amounts made available under this heading shall not be deemed to 
be for public housing, notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of the Act:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination. Time period.>> That grantees 
shall commit to an additional period of affordability determined by the 
Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided further, That grantees 
shall provide a match in State, local, other Federal, or private funds:  
Provided further, That grantees may include local governments, Tribal 
entities, public housing agencies, and nonprofit organizations:  
Provided further, That for-profit developers may apply jointly with a 
public entity:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Regulations.>> That for 
purposes of environmental review, a grantee shall be treated as a public 
housing agency under section 26 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants 
made with amounts available under this heading shall be subject to the 
regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such section:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, not less 
than $37,500,000 shall be awarded to public housing agencies:  Provided 
further, That such grantees shall create partnerships with other local 
organizations, including assisted housing owners, service agencies, and 
resident organizations:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Consultation. Coordination.>> That the Secretary shall 
consult with the Secretaries of Education, Labor, Transportation, Health 
and Human Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the Attorney General, and 
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate 
and leverage other appropriate Federal resources:  Provided further, 
That not more than $10,000,000 of the amounts made available under this 
heading may be provided as grants to undertake comprehensive local 
planning with input from residents and the community:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be 
obligated for main street housing grants under section 24(n) of the Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1437v(n)):  Provided further, That unobligated balances, 
including recaptures, remaining from amounts made available under the 
heading ``Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (HOPE 
VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used for 
purposes under this heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
amounts were appropriated:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Grants. Deadline. Determination.>> That the Secretary 
shall make grant awards not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary determines:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until September 30, 2024, obligate 
any available unobligated balances made available under this heading in 
this or any prior Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 355]]

                        self-sufficiency programs

    For activities and assistance related to self-sufficiency programs, 
to remain available until September 30, 2027, $195,500,000:  Provided, 
That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $140,500,000 shall be available for the family self-
        sufficiency program to support family self-sufficiency 
        coordinators under section 23 of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437u), to promote the development of local 
        strategies to coordinate the use of assistance under sections 8 
        and 9 of such Act with public and private resources, and enable 
        eligible families to achieve economic independence and self-
        sufficiency;
            (2) $40,000,000 shall be available for the resident 
        opportunity and self-sufficiency program to provide for 
        supportive services, service coordinators, and congregate 
        services as authorized by section 34 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American 
        Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
        4101 et seq.):  Provided, That amounts made available under this 
        paragraph may be used to renew resident opportunity and self-
        sufficiency program grants to allow the public housing agency, 
        or a new owner, to continue to serve (or restart service to) 
        residents of a project with assistance converted from public 
        housing to project-based rental assistance under section 8 of 
        the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) or 
        assistance under section 8(o)(13) of such Act under the heading 
        ``Rental Assistance Demonstration'' in the Department of Housing 
        and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-
        55), as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437f note); and
            (3) $15,000,000 shall be available for a jobs-plus 
        initiative, modeled after the jobs-plus demonstration:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Grants.>> That funding provided under this 
        paragraph shall be available for competitive grants to 
        partnerships between public housing authorities, local workforce 
        investment boards established under section 107 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and 
        other agencies and organizations that provide support to help 
        public housing residents obtain employment and increase 
        earnings:  Provided further, That applicants must demonstrate 
        the ability to provide services to residents, partner with 
        workforce investment boards, and leverage service dollars:  
        Provided further, <<NOTE: Waivers. Requirements.>> That the 
        Secretary may allow public housing agencies to request 
        exemptions from rent and income limitation requirements under 
        sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
        U.S.C. 1437a, 1437d), as necessary to implement the jobs-plus 
        program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
        approve upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or 
        alternative requirements are necessary for the effective 
        implementation of the jobs-plus initiative as a voluntary 
        program for residents:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Notice. Federal Register, 
        publication. Waivers. Deadline.>> That the Secretary shall 
        publish by notice in the Federal Register any waivers or 
        alternative requirements pursuant to the preceding proviso no 
        later than 10 days before the effective date of such notice.

[[Page 138 STAT. 356]]

                        native american programs

    For activities and assistance authorized under title I of the Native 
American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (in this 
heading ``NAHASDA'') (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) with 
respect to Indian tribes, and related training and technical assistance, 
$1,344,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028:  Provided, 
That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $1,111,000,000 shall be available for the Native 
        American housing block grants program, as authorized under title 
        I of NAHASDA:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Applicability.>> That, 
        notwithstanding NAHASDA, to determine the amount of the 
        allocation under title I of such Act for each Indian tribe, the 
        Secretary shall apply the formula under section 302 of such Act 
        with the need component based on single-race census data and 
        with the need component based on multi-race census data, and the 
        amount of the allocation for each Indian tribe shall be the 
        greater of the two resulting allocation amounts:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary 
        shall notify grantees of their formula allocation not later than 
        60 days after the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) $150,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants 
        under the Native American housing block grants program, as 
        authorized under title I of NAHASDA:  Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall obligate such amount for competitive grants to 
        eligible recipients authorized under NAHASDA that apply for 
        funds:  Provided further, That in awarding amounts made 
        available in this paragraph, the Secretary shall consider need 
        and administrative capacity, and shall give priority to projects 
        that will spur construction and rehabilitation of housing:  
        Provided further, That any amounts transferred for the necessary 
        costs of administering and overseeing the obligation and 
        expenditure of such additional amounts in prior Acts may also be 
        used for the necessary costs of administering and overseeing 
        such additional amount;
            (3) $1,000,000 shall be available for the cost of guaranteed 
        notes and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of 
        NAHASDA:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
        modifying such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined 
        in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
        661a):  Provided further, That amounts made available in this 
        and prior Acts for the cost of such guaranteed notes and other 
        obligations that are unobligated, including recaptures and 
        carryover, may be available to subsidize the total principal 
        amount of any notes and other obligations, any part of which is 
        to be guaranteed, not to exceed $50,000,000, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2025;
            (4) $75,000,000 shall be available for grants to Indian 
        tribes for carrying out the Indian community development block 
        grant program under title I of the Housing and Community 
        Development Act of 1974, notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of 
        such Act, of which, notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (including section 203 of this Act), not more than $5,000,000 
        may be used for emergencies that constitute imminent threats to 
        health and safety:  Provided, That not to exceed 20 percent of 
        any grant made with amounts made

[[Page 138 STAT. 357]]

        available in this paragraph shall be expended for planning and 
        management development and administration; and
            (5) $7,000,000, in addition to amounts otherwise available 
        for such purpose, shall be available for providing training and 
        technical assistance to Indian tribes, Indian housing 
        authorities, and tribally designated housing entities, to 
        support the inspection of Indian housing units, for contract 
        expertise, and for training and technical assistance related to 
        amounts made available under this heading and other headings in 
        this Act for the needs of Native American families and Indian 
        country:  Provided, That of the amounts made available in this 
        paragraph, not less than $2,000,000 shall be for a national 
        organization as authorized under section 703 of NAHASDA (25 
        U.S.C. 4212):  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That 
        amounts made available in this paragraph may be used, 
        contracted, or competed as determined by the Secretary:  
        Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That notwithstanding 
        chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977), the 
        amounts made available in this paragraph may be used by the 
        Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with public and 
        private organizations, agencies, institutions, and other 
        technical assistance providers to support the administration of 
        negotiated rulemaking under section 106 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 
        4116), the administration of the allocation formula under 
        section 302 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4152), and the administration 
        of performance tracking and reporting under section 407 of 
        NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4167).

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a), 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 661a):  
Provided further, That amounts made available in this and prior Acts for 
the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a), 
that are unobligated, including recaptures and carryover, may be 
available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $1,800,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025.

                   native hawaiian housing block grant

    For the Native Hawaiian housing block grant program, as authorized 
under title VIII of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4221 et seq.), $22,300,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2028:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 812(b) of such Act, the Department of Hawaiian 
Home Lands may not invest grant amounts made available under this 
heading in investment securities and other obligations:  Provided 
further, That amounts made available under this heading in this and 
prior fiscal years may be used to provide rental assistance to eligible 
Native Hawaiian families both on and off the Hawaiian Home Lands, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law:  Provided further, That up 
to $1,000,000

[[Page 138 STAT. 358]]

of the amounts made available under this heading may be for training and 
technical assistance related to amounts made available under this 
heading and other headings in this Act for the needs of Native Hawaiians 
and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.

       native hawaiian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans, as authorized by section 184A of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13b), 
any part of which is to be guaranteed, shall not exceed $28,000,000 in 
total loan principal, to remain available until September 30, 2025:  
Provided, That the Secretary may enter into commitments to guarantee 
loans used for refinancing.

                   Community Planning and Development

               housing opportunities for persons with aids

     <<NOTE: Contracts.>> For carrying out the housing opportunities for 
persons with AIDS program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $505,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2027:  Provided, That the Secretary shall renew or replace 
all expiring contracts for permanent supportive housing that initially 
were funded under section 854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made 
available under this heading in fiscal year 2010 and prior fiscal years 
that meet all program requirements before awarding funds for new 
contracts under such section:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notice.>> That 
the process for submitting amendments and approving replacement 
contracts shall be established by the Secretary in a notice:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Department shall 
notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment 
of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For assistance to States and units of general local government, and 
other entities, for economic and community development activities, and 
other purposes, $6,720,054,336, to remain available until September 30, 
2027:  Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $3,300,000,000 shall be available for carrying out the 
        community development block grant program under title I of the 
        Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 
        U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) (in this heading ``the Act''):  Provided, 
        That <<NOTE: Grants.>> not to exceed 20 percent of any grant 
        made with funds made available under this paragraph shall be 
        expended for planning and management development and 
        administration:  Provided further, That a metropolitan city, 
        urban county, unit of general local government, or insular area 
        that directly or indirectly receives funds under this paragraph 
        may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all or any portion of 
        such funds to another such entity in exchange for any other 
        funds, credits, or non-Federal considerations, but shall use 
        such funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act:  
        Provided further, That <<NOTE: Evaluation.>> notwithstanding 
        section

[[Page 138 STAT. 359]]

        105(e)(1) of the Act, no funds made available under this 
        paragraph may be provided to a for-profit entity for an economic 
        development project under section 105(a)(17) unless such project 
        has been evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines 
        required under subsection (e)(2) of section 105;
            (2) $100,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to 
        award grants on a competitive basis to State and local 
        governments, metropolitan planning organizations, and 
        multijurisdictional entities for additional activities under 
        title I of the Act for the identification and removal of 
        barriers to affordable housing production and preservation:  
        Provided, That eligible uses of such grants include activities 
        to further develop, evaluate, and implement housing policy 
        plans, improve housing strategies, and facilitate affordable 
        housing production and preservation:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall prioritize applicants that are able to (A) 
        demonstrate progress and a commitment to overcoming local 
        barriers to facilitate the increase in affordable housing 
        production and preservation, primarily by having enacted 
        improved laws and regulations that the Secretary reasonably 
        expects to preserve or produce new housing units; and (B) 
        demonstrate an acute need for housing affordable to households 
        with incomes below 100 percent of the area median income:  
        Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>> grantees shall report 
        to the Secretary regularly on their activities and outcomes:  
        Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Analysis.>> Secretary shall 
        analyze observable housing production, preservation, and cost 
        trends in the participating jurisdictions or geographic areas:  
        Provided further, That funds allocated for such grants shall not 
        adversely affect the amount of any formula assistance received 
        by a jurisdiction under paragraph (1) of this heading:  Provided 
        further, That in <<NOTE: Waiver 
        authority. Requirements.>> administering such amounts the 
        Secretary may waive or specify alternative requirements for any 
        provision of such title I except for requirements related to 
        fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, the 
        environment, and requirements that activities benefit persons of 
        low- and moderate-income, upon a finding that any such waivers 
        or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or 
        facilitate the use of such amounts;
            (3) $30,000,000 shall be available for activities authorized 
        under section 8071 of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities 
        Act (Public Law 115-271):  Provided, That funds allocated 
        pursuant to this paragraph shall not adversely affect the amount 
        of any formula assistance received by a State under paragraph 
        (1) of this heading:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Allocation.>> That the Secretary shall allocate 
        the funds for such activities based on the notice establishing 
        the funding formula published in 84 FR 16027 (April 17, 2019) 
        except that the formula shall use age-adjusted rates of drug 
        overdose deaths for 2021 based on data from the Centers for 
        Disease Control and Prevention; and
            (4) $3,290,054,336 shall be available for grants for the 
        Economic Development Initiative (EDI) for the purposes, and in 
        amounts, specified for Community Project Funding/Congressionally 
        Directed Spending in the table entitled ``Community Project 
        Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending'' included in the 
        explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter 
        preceding division A of this consolidated Act):  Provided,

[[Page 138 STAT. 360]]

        That eligible expenses of such grants in this and prior Acts may 
        include administrative, planning, operations and maintenance, 
        and other costs:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Grants. Reimbursement.>> That such grants for 
        the EDI shall be available for reimbursement of otherwise 
        eligible expenses incurred on or after the date of enactment of 
        this Act and prior to the date of grant execution:  Provided 
        further, That none of the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph for grants for the EDI shall be used for reimbursement 
        of expenses incurred prior to the date of enactment of this Act: 
         Provided further, <<NOTE: Grants. Reimbursement.>> That grants 
        for the EDI authorized under this heading in the Department of 
        Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2022 (Public 
        Law 117-103) shall also be available hereafter for reimbursement 
        of otherwise eligible expenses (including those eligible 
        expenses identified in the first proviso of this paragraph) 
        incurred on or after the date of enactment of such Act and prior 
        to the date of grant execution, and shall hereafter not be 
        subject to the second proviso under such heading in such Act:

  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That for amounts 
made available under paragraphs (1) and (3), the Secretary shall notify 
grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this 
Act.

          community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
U.S.C. 661a), during fiscal year 2024, commitments to guarantee loans 
under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
(42 U.S.C. 5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a 
total principal amount of $400,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108:  Provided, <<NOTE: Fees.>> That the Secretary shall 
collect fees from borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such 
section 108, to result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing 
such loans, and any such fees shall be collected in accordance with 
section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided 
further, That such commitment authority funded by fees may be used to 
guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, notes or other obligations 
issued by any State on behalf of non-entitlement communities in the 
State in accordance with the requirements of such section 108:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Distribution.>> That any State receiving such a 
guarantee or commitment under the preceding proviso shall distribute all 
funds subject to such guarantee to the units of general local government 
in non-entitlement areas that received the commitment.

home <<NOTE: Time periods.>> investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 12721 et seq.), $1,250,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2027:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 231(b) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12771(b)), all unobligated balances remaining 
from amounts recaptured pursuant to such section that remain available 
until expended shall be combined with amounts made available under this 
heading and allocated in accordance with the formula under section 
217(b)(1)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(b)(1)(A)):  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> the Department shall notify 
grantees of their formula allocations within 60

[[Page 138 STAT. 361]]

days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That section 218(g) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with respect to the 
right of a jurisdiction to draw funds from its HOME Investment Trust 
Fund that otherwise expired or would expire in any calendar year from 
2018 through 2026 under that section:  Provided further, That section 
231(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12771(b)) shall not apply to any 
uninvested funds that otherwise were deducted or would be deducted from 
the line of credit in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment 
Trust Fund in any calendar year from 2018 through 2026 under that 
section.

   preservation and reinvestment initiative for community enhancement

    For competitive grants to preserve and revitalize manufactured 
housing and eligible manufactured housing communities (including pre-
1976 mobile homes) under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2028:  Provided, 
That recipients <<NOTE: State and local governments. Native 
Americans.>> of grants provided with amounts made available under this 
heading shall be States, units of general local government, resident-
owned manufactured housing communities, cooperatives, nonprofit entities 
including consortia of nonprofit entities, community development 
financial institutions, Indian Tribes (as such term is defined in 
section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4103)), or other entities 
approved by the Secretary:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Native 
Americans.>> the Secretary shall reserve an amount for Indian Tribes 
within such competition:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
approve entities for selection that partner with one or several 
residents of such eligible communities or that propose to implement a 
grant program that would assist residents of such eligible communities:  
Provided further, That eligible uses of such grants may include 
infrastructure, planning, resident and community services (including 
relocation assistance and eviction prevention), resiliency activities, 
and providing other assistance to residents or owners of manufactured 
homes, which may include providing assistance for manufactured housing 
land and site acquisition:  Provided further, That, 
except <<NOTE: Determination.>> as determined by the Secretary, 
participation in this program shall not encumber the future transfer of 
title or use of property by the residents, owners, or communities:  
Provided further, That when selecting recipients, the Secretary shall 
prioritize applications that primarily benefit low- or moderately low-
income residents and preserve long-term housing affordability for 
residents of manufactured housing or a manufactured housing community:  
Provided further, That eligible manufactured housing communities may 
include those that are--
            (1) owned by the residents of the manufactured housing 
        community through a resident-controlled entity, as defined by 
        the Secretary; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>> determined by the Secretary to 
        be subject to binding agreements that will preserve the 
        community and maintain affordability on a long-term basis:

  Provided further, That resiliency activities means the reconstruction, 
repair, or replacement of manufactured housing and manufactured housing 
communities to protect the health and safety of manufactured housing 
residents and to address weatherization and

[[Page 138 STAT. 362]]

energy efficiency needs, except that for pre-1976 mobile homes, funds 
made available under this heading may be used only for replacement:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Requirements.>> That the 
Secretary may waive or specify alternative requirements for any 
provision of any statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in 
connection with the use of amounts made available under this heading 
(except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding that such waiver 
or alternative requirement is necessary to facilitate the use of such 
amounts.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program, as 
authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension 
Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 12805 note), and for related activities and 
assistance, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026:  
Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $12,000,000 shall be available for the self-help 
        homeownership opportunity program as authorized under such 
        section 11;
            (2) $42,000,000 shall be available for the second, third, 
        and fourth capacity building entities specified in section 4(a) 
        of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of 
        which not less than $5,000,000 shall be for rural capacity 
        building activities:  Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That for 
        purposes of awarding grants from amounts made available in this 
        paragraph, the Secretary may enter into multiyear agreements, as 
        appropriate, subject to the availability of annual 
        appropriations; and
            (3) $6,000,000 shall be available for capacity building by 
        national rural housing organizations having experience assessing 
        national rural conditions and providing financing, training, 
        technical assistance, information, and research to local 
        nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian Tribes 
        serving high need rural communities.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For assistance under title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360 et seq.), and for related activities and 
assistance, $4,051,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2026:  Provided, That of the sums appropriated under this heading--
            (1) $290,000,000 shall be available for the emergency 
        solutions grants program authorized under subtitle B of such 
        title IV (42 U.S.C. 11371 et seq.):  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Department 
        shall notify grantees of their formula allocation from amounts 
        allocated (which may represent initial or final amounts 
        allocated) for the emergency solutions grant program not later 
        than 60 days after enactment of this Act;
            (2) $3,544,000,000 shall be available for the continuum of 
        care program authorized under subtitle C of such title IV (42 
        U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) and the rural housing stability assistance 
        programs authorized under subtitle D of such title IV (42 U.S.C. 
        11408):  Provided, That the Secretary shall prioritize funding 
        under the continuum of care program to continuums of care that 
        have demonstrated a capacity to reallocate funding

[[Page 138 STAT. 363]]

        from lower performing projects to higher performing projects:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary may make reasonable 
        adjustments to renewal amounts to enable renewal projects to 
        operate at substantially the same levels, including cost-of-
        living adjustments for supportive services from the prior grant: 
         Provided further, <<NOTE: Incentives.>> That the Secretary 
        shall provide incentives to create projects that coordinate with 
        housing providers and healthcare organizations to provide 
        permanent supportive housing and rapid re-housing services:  
        Provided further, <<NOTE: Notice.>> That the Secretary may 
        establish by notice an alternative maximum amount for 
        administrative costs related to the requirements described in 
        sections 402(f)(1) and 402(f)(2) of subtitle A of such title IV 
        of no more than 5 percent or $50,000, whichever is greater, 
        notwithstanding the 3 percent limitation in section 423(a)(10) 
        of such subtitle C:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
        available for the continuum of care program under this 
        paragraph, $52,000,000 shall be for grants for new rapid re-
        housing projects and supportive service projects providing 
        coordinated entry, and for eligible activities that the 
        Secretary determines to be critical in order to assist survivors 
        of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or 
        stalking, except that the Secretary may make additional grants 
        for such projects and purposes from amounts made available for 
        such continuum of care program:  Provided further, That amounts 
        made available for the continuum of care program under this 
        paragraph and any remaining unobligated balances under this 
        heading in prior Acts may be used to competitively or non-
        competitively renew or replace grants for youth homeless 
        demonstration projects under the continuum of care program, 
        notwithstanding any conflict with the requirements of the 
        continuum of care program;
            (3) $10,000,000 shall be available for the national homeless 
        data analysis project:  
        Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>> That 
        notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal Grant and 
        Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977 (31 U.S.C. 6301-6308), the 
        amounts made available under this paragraph and any remaining 
        unobligated balances under this heading for such purposes in 
        prior Acts may be used by the Secretary to enter into 
        cooperative agreements with such entities as may be determined 
        by the Secretary, including public and private organizations, 
        agencies, and institutions;
            (4) $107,000,000 shall be available to implement projects to 
        demonstrate how a comprehensive approach to serving homeless 
        youth, age 24 and under, in up to 25 communities with a priority 
        for communities with substantial rural populations in up to 
        eight locations, can dramatically reduce youth homelessness:  
        Provided, That of the amount made available under this 
        paragraph, not less than $25,000,000 shall be for youth 
        homelessness system improvement grants to support communities, 
        including but not limited to the communities assisted under the 
        matter preceding this proviso, in establishing and implementing 
        a response system for youth homelessness, or for improving their 
        existing system:  Provided further, That of the amount made 
        available under this paragraph, up to $10,000,000 shall be to 
        provide technical assistance to communities, including but not 
        limited to the communities assisted in the preceding proviso and 
        the matter preceding such proviso,

[[Page 138 STAT. 364]]

        on improving system responses to youth homelessness, and 
        collection, analysis, use, and reporting of data and performance 
        measures under the comprehensive approaches to serve homeless 
        youth, in addition to and in coordination with other technical 
        assistance funds provided under this title:  Provided further, 
        That the Secretary may use up to 10 percent of the amount made 
        available under the preceding proviso to build the capacity of 
        current technical assistance providers or to train new technical 
        assistance providers with verifiable prior experience with 
        systems and programs for youth experiencing homelessness; and
            (5) $100,000,000 shall be available for one-time awards 
        under the continuum of care program for new construction, 
        acquisition, or rehabilitation of new permanent supportive 
        housing, of which not more than 20 percent of such awards may be 
        used for other continuum of care eligible activities associated 
        with such projects and not more than 10 percent of such awards 
        may be used for project administration:  Provided, 
        That <<NOTE: Determination.>> these amounts shall be awarded on 
        a competitive basis, based on need and other factors to be 
        determined by the Secretary, including incentives to establish 
        projects that coordinate with housing providers, healthcare 
        organizations and social service providers:  Provided further, 
        That not less than $35,000,000 shall be awarded to applicants 
        for projects within States with populations less than 2,500,000, 
        except that if such amount is undersubscribed any remaining 
        amounts may be awarded to qualified applicants for projects in 
        any State:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Grants.>> That the grants 
        for ongoing costs associated with such projects shall be 
        eligible for renewal under the continuum of care program subject 
        to the same terms and conditions as other renewal applicants:

  Provided further, <<NOTE: Children, youth, and families.>> That youth 
aged 24 and under seeking assistance under this heading shall not be 
required to provide third party documentation to establish their 
eligibility under subsection (a) or (b) of section 103 of the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302) to receive services:  
Provided further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under or families 
headed by youth aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe situations 
may be served by youth-serving providers funded under this heading:  
Provided further, That persons eligible under section 103(a)(5) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act may be served by any project 
funded under this heading to provide both transitional housing and rapid 
re-housing:  Provided further, That for all matching funds requirements 
applicable to funds made available under this heading for this fiscal 
year and prior fiscal years, a grantee may use (or could have used) as a 
source of match funds other funds administered by the Secretary and 
other Federal agencies unless there is (or was) a specific statutory 
prohibition on any such use of any such funds:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be available to provide funding for new 
projects, except for projects created through reallocation, unless the 
Secretary determines that the continuum of care has demonstrated that 
projects are evaluated and ranked based on the degree to which they 
improve the continuum of care's system performance:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time periods.>> That any unobligated amounts remaining 
from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 2012 and 
prior years for project-based rental

[[Page 138 STAT. 365]]

assistance for rehabilitation projects with 10-year grant terms may be 
used for purposes under this heading, notwithstanding the purposes for 
which such funds were appropriated:  Provided further, That unobligated 
balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
transferred to or appropriated under this heading in fiscal year 2019 or 
prior years, except for rental assistance amounts that were recaptured 
and made available until expended, shall be available for the current 
purposes authorized under this heading in addition to the purposes for 
which such funds originally were appropriated.

                            Housing Programs

project-based <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$15,610,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2023 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2023), 
of which $2,000,000,000 is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and 
$400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available on 
October 1, 2024:  Provided, That the amounts made available under this 
heading shall be available for expiring or terminating section 8 
project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 8 project-based 
subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to section 441 of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of 
section 8 contracts for units in projects that are subject to approved 
plans of action under the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act 
of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident 
Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and other expenses 
associated with project-based activities and assistance funded under 
this heading:  Provided further, That of the total amounts provided 
under this heading, not to exceed $468,000,000 shall be available for 
performance-based contract administrators for section 8 project-based 
assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f):  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may also use such amounts in the preceding proviso for 
performance-based contract administrators for the administration of: 
interest reduction payments pursuant to section 236(a) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments pursuant to 
section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 
1701s); section 236(f)(2) rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
1(f)(2)); project rental assistance contracts for the elderly under 
section 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project 
rental assistance contracts for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance 
contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing 
Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667):  Provided

[[Page 138 STAT. 366]]

further, That amounts recaptured under this heading, the heading 
``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'', or the heading ``Housing 
Certificate Fund'', may be used for renewals of or amendments to section 
8 project-based contracts or for performance-based contract 
administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were 
appropriated:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination. Remittance.>> That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, upon the request of the Secretary, project funds 
that are held in residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a 
section 8 project-based housing assistance payments contract that 
authorizes the Department or a housing finance agency to require that 
surplus project funds be deposited in an interest-bearing residual 
receipts account and that are in excess of an amount to be determined by 
the Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this 
account, to be available until expended:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be available in 
addition to the amount otherwise provided by this heading for uses 
authorized under this heading.

                         housing for the elderly

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), for project rental assistance 
for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including 
amendments to contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring 
contracts for such assistance for up to a 5-year term, for senior 
preservation rental assistance contracts, including renewals, as 
authorized by section 811(e) of the American Homeownership and Economic 
Opportunity Act of 2000 (12 U.S.C. 1701q note), and for supportive 
services associated with the housing, $913,000,000 to remain available 
until September 30, 2027:  Provided, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, up to $112,000,000 shall be for service coordinators 
and the continuation of existing congregate service grants for residents 
of assisted housing projects:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>> That any funding for existing service 
coordinators under the preceding proviso shall be provided within 120 
days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Time period.>> That the Secretary may waive the provisions of 
section 202 governing the terms and conditions of project rental 
assistance, except that the initial contract term for such assistance 
shall not exceed 5 years in duration:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination. Remittance.>> That upon request of the 
Secretary, project funds that are held in residual receipts accounts for 
any project subject to a section 202 project rental assistance contract, 
and that upon termination of such contract are in excess of an amount to 
be determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and 
deposited in this account, to remain available until September 30, 2027: 
 Provided further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to 
the preceding proviso shall be available, in addition to the amounts 
otherwise provided by this heading, for the purposes authorized under 
this heading:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for the current 
purposes authorized under this heading in addition to the purposes for 
which such funds originally were appropriated.

[[Page 138 STAT. 367]]

                  housing for persons with disabilities

    For capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as 
authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), for project rental assistance for 
supportive housing for persons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2) 
of such Act, for project assistance contracts pursuant to subsection (h) 
of section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as added by section 205(a) of 
the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978 (Public Law 95-
557: 92 Stat. 2090), including amendments to contracts for such 
assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance for up 
to a 5-year term, for project rental assistance to State housing finance 
agencies and other appropriate entities as authorized under section 
811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, and 
for supportive services associated with the housing for persons with 
disabilities as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of such Act, 
$208,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2027:  Provided, 
That, upon <<NOTE: Determination. Remittance.>> the request of the 
Secretary, project funds that are held in residual receipts accounts for 
any project subject to a section 811 project rental assistance contract, 
and that upon termination of such contract are in excess of an amount to 
be determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the Department and 
deposited in this account, to remain available until September 30, 2027: 
 Provided further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to 
the preceding proviso shall be available in addition to the amounts 
otherwise provided by this heading for the purposes authorized under 
this heading:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or 
appropriated under this heading shall be used for the current purposes 
authorized under this heading in addition to the purposes for which such 
funds originally were appropriated.

                      housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
1968, as amended, $57,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2025, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract services:  
Provided, That funds shall be used for providing counseling and advice 
to tenants and homeowners, both current and prospective, with respect to 
property maintenance, financial management or literacy, and such other 
matters as may be appropriate to assist them in improving their housing 
conditions, meeting their financial needs, and fulfilling the 
responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; for program 
administration; and for housing counselor training:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That for purposes of awarding grants from 
amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements, as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

             payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 et 
seq.), up to $14,000,000, to remain available until

[[Page 138 STAT. 368]]

expended, of which $14,000,000 shall be derived from the Manufactured 
Housing Fees Trust Fund (established under section 620(e) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5419(e)):  Provided, That not to exceed the total amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available from the general fund 
of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations and make 
expenditures pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act:  Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during fiscal year 2024 so as to result in 
a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation from the general fund estimated 
at zero, and fees pursuant to such section 620 shall be modified as 
necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2024 appropriation:  
Provided further, That for the dispute resolution and installation 
programs, the Secretary may assess and collect fees from any program 
participant:  Provided further, That such collections shall be deposited 
into the Trust Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein, may use such 
collections, as well as fees collected under section 620 of such Act, 
for necessary expenses of such Act:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 of such Act, the 
Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the Secretary under such Act 
through the use of approved service providers that are paid directly by 
the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

                mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That during fiscal 
year 2024, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the purposes of 
section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, shall not exceed 
$1,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing amount in the 
preceding proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental 
entities in connection with sales of single family real properties owned 
by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage 
Insurance Fund:  Provided further, That for administrative contract 
expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective 
date.>> That to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
$200,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2024, an additional $1,400 for 
administrative contract expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 
in additional guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount 
for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made 
available by this proviso exceed $30,000,000:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence of section 255(g) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), during fiscal year 
2024 the Secretary may insure and enter into new commitments to insure 
mortgages under section 255 of the National Housing Act only to the 
extent that the net credit subsidy cost for such insurance does not 
exceed zero.

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections

[[Page 138 STAT. 369]]

238 and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), 
shall not exceed $35,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of 
which is to be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2025: 
 Provided, That during fiscal year 2024, gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 
207(l), 238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed 
$1,000,000, which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental 
entities in connection with the sale of single family real properties 
owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

 guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), 
shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2025:  Provided, That $54,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025, shall be for necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Government National Mortgage Association:  Provided further, That to the 
extent that guaranteed loan commitments exceed $155,000,000,000 on or 
before April 1, 2024, an additional $100 for necessary salaries and 
expenses shall be available until expended for each $1,000,000 in 
additional guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for 
any amount below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available 
by this proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Fees.>> That receipts from Commitment and Multiclass 
fees collected pursuant to title III of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1716 et seq.) shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
account.

                     Policy Development and Research

                         research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including 
carrying out the functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1968, and for technical assistance, $119,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2025:  Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That with 
respect to amounts made available under this heading, notwithstanding 
section 203 of this title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
agreements with philanthropic entities, other Federal agencies, State or 
local governments and their agencies, Indian Tribes, tribally designated 
housing entities, or colleges or universities for research projects:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Matching contribution.>> with respect to 
the preceding proviso, such partners to the cooperative agreements shall 
contribute at least a 50 percent match toward the cost of the project:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Compliance.>> That for non-competitive 
agreements entered into in accordance with the preceding two provisos, 
the Secretary shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding 
Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282; 31 
U.S.C. note) in lieu of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C)

[[Page 138 STAT. 370]]

of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 
(42 U.S.C. 3545(a)(4)(C)) with respect to documentation of award 
decisions:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Plan. Allocation. Time 
period.>> That prior to obligation of technical assistance funding, the 
Secretary shall submit a plan to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on how the Secretary will allocate funding for this 
activity at least 30 days prior to obligation:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided under this heading may be available for the 
doctoral dissertation research grant program:  Provided further, That an 
additional $20,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, 
shall be for competitive grants to nonprofit or governmental entities to 
provide legal assistance (including assistance related to pretrial 
activities, trial activities, post-trial activities and alternative 
dispute resolution) at no cost to eligible low-income tenants at risk of 
or subject to eviction:  Provided further, That in awarding grants under 
the preceding proviso, the Secretary shall give preference to applicants 
that include a marketing strategy for residents of areas with high rates 
of eviction, have experience providing no-cost legal assistance to low-
income individuals, including those with limited English proficiency or 
disabilities, and have sufficient capacity to administer such 
assistance:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Urban and rural areas.>>  That 
the Secretary shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that the 
proportion of eligible tenants living in rural areas who will receive 
legal assistance with grant funds made available under this heading is 
not less than the overall proportion of eligible tenants who live in 
rural areas.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                         fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 3601 et seq.), and section 561 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3616a), $86,355,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2025:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: Fees.>> section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code, the Secretary may assess and collect fees to cover the costs of 
the Fair Housing Training Academy, and may use such funds to develop 
online courses and provide such training:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Lobbying.>> none of the funds made available under this 
heading may be used to lobby the executive or legislative branches of 
the Federal Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or 
loan:  Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $1,355,000 may be available to the Secretary for the creation 
and promotion of translated materials and other programs that support 
the assistance of persons with limited English proficiency in utilizing 
the services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.

             Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                          lead hazard reduction

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the lead hazard reduction program, as authorized by section 1011 
of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act

[[Page 138 STAT. 371]]

of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4852), the healthy homes initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 
(12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 and 1701z-2), and for related activities and 
assistance, $345,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026:  
Provided, That the amounts made available under this heading are 
provided as follows:
            (1) $200,000,000 shall be for the award of grants pursuant 
        to such section 1011, of which not less than $105,000,000 shall 
        be provided to areas with the highest lead-based paint abatement 
        need;
            (2) $140,000,000 shall be for the healthy homes initiative, 
        pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban 
        Development Act of 1970, which shall include research, studies, 
        testing, and demonstration efforts, including education and 
        outreach concerning lead-based paint poisoning and other 
        housing-related diseases and hazards, and mitigating housing-
        related health and safety hazards in housing of low-income 
        families, of which--
                    (A) $5,000,000 shall be for the implementation of 
                projects in communities that are served by both the 
                healthy homes initiative and the Department of Energy 
                weatherization programs to demonstrate whether the 
                coordination of healthy homes remediation activities 
                with weatherization activities achieves cost savings and 
                better outcomes in improving the safety and quality of 
                homes; and
                    (B) $30,000,000 shall be for grants to experienced 
                non-profit organizations, States, local governments, or 
                public housing agencies for safety and functional home 
                modification repairs and renovations to meet the needs 
                of low-income seniors to enable them to remain in their 
                primary residence, of which no less than $10,000,000 
                shall be available to meet such needs in communities 
                with substantial rural populations;
            (3) $3,000,000 shall be for the award of grants and 
        contracts for research pursuant to sections 1051 and 1052 of the 
        Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 
        U.S.C. 4854, 4854a);
            (4) up to $2,000,000 in total of the amounts made available 
        under paragraphs (2) and (3) may be transferred to the heading 
        ``Research and Technology'' for the purposes of conducting 
        research and studies and for use in accordance with the provisos 
        under that heading for non-competitive agreements; and
            (5) $2,000,000 shall be for grants for a radon testing and 
        mitigation safety demonstration program (the radon 
        demonstration) in public housing:  Provided, That the testing 
        method, mitigation method, or action level used under the radon 
        demonstration shall be as specified by applicable State or local 
        law, if such law is more protective of human health or the 
        environment than the method or level specified by the Secretary:

  Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant 
to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq.) and other provisions of law that further the purposes of such Act, 
a grant under the healthy homes initiative, or the lead technical 
studies program, or other demonstrations or programs under this heading 
or under prior appropriations Acts for such purposes under this heading, 
or under the heading ``Housing for

[[Page 138 STAT. 372]]

the Elderly'' under prior Appropriations Acts, shall be considered to be 
funds for a special project for purposes of section 305(c) of the 
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994:  Provided 
further, That each <<NOTE: Certification. Notice.>>  applicant for a 
grant or cooperative agreement under this heading shall certify adequate 
capacity that is acceptable to the Secretary to carry out the proposed 
use of funds pursuant to a notice of funding opportunity:  Provided 
further, That amounts made available under this heading, in this or 
prior appropriations Acts, still remaining available, may be used for 
any purpose under this heading notwithstanding the purpose for which 
such amounts were appropriated if a program competition is 
undersubscribed and there are other program competitions under this 
heading that are oversubscribed:  Provided further, That $49,400,000 of 
the amounts made available under this heading in this Act from amounts 
specified in paragraph (2) shall be derived from unobligated balances 
from prior year appropriations available under this heading, which shall 
continue to be available for the same time period as originally 
appropriated.

                       Information Technology Fund

    For Department-wide and program-specific information technology 
systems and infrastructure, $383,050,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2026, of which up to $23,950,000 shall be for development, 
modernization, and enhancement projects, including planning for such 
projects:  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Briefing.>> That not later than 
30 days after the end of each quarter, the Secretary shall brief the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on all information 
technology modernization efforts as required in the explanatory 
statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of 
this consolidated Act).

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$152,924,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
independent authority over all personnel issues within this office.

     General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                         (including rescissions)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201. <<NOTE: Remittance.>>  Fifty percent of the amounts of 
budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts 
associated with such budget authority, that are recaptured from projects 
described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) shall be 
rescinded or in the case of cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and 
such amounts of budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies 
or local governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992,

[[Page 138 STAT. 373]]

in accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, 
the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the budget authority or cash 
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury to provide 
project owners with incentives to refinance their project at a lower 
interest rate.

    Sec. 202.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to investigate or prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any otherwise 
lawful activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the filing 
or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal action, that is engaged in solely 
for the purpose of achieving or preventing action by a Government 
official or entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 204.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a contract 
or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for services and 
facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, Government 
National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, 
Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any member thereof, 
Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within the meaning of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-
1).
    Sec. 205.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 206.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 2024 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided:  Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty operations 
of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases are 
necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: Reports. Budget.>>  The Secretary shall provide 
quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and excess funds in 
each program and activity within the jurisdiction of the Department and 
shall submit additional, updated budget information to these Committees 
upon request.

[[Page 138 STAT. 374]]

    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available by this title may be 
used for an audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that 
makes applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 209. <<NOTE: Time period.>>  (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, subject to the conditions listed under this section, 
for fiscal years 2024 and 2025, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may authorize the transfer of some or all project-based 
assistance, debt held or insured by the Secretary and statutorily 
required low-income and very low-income use restrictions if any, 
associated with one or more multifamily housing project or projects to 
another multifamily housing project or projects.

    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the project 
or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure that such 
project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and the 
                net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to the 
                transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) <<NOTE: Determination.>> For unoccupied units in 
                the transferring project: The Secretary may authorize a 
                reduction in the number of dwelling units in the 
                receiving project or projects to allow for a 
                reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet current market 
                demands, as determined by the Secretary and provided 
                there is no increase in the project-based assistance 
                budget authority.
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  The transferring project 
        shall, as determined by the Secretary, be either physically 
        obsolete or economically nonviable, or be reasonably expected to 
        become economically nonviable when complying with State or 
        Federal requirements for community integration and reduced 
        concentration of individuals with disabilities.
            (3) <<NOTE: Standards.>> The receiving project or projects 
        shall meet or exceed applicable physical standards established 
        by the Secretary.
            (4) <<NOTE: Notification. Consultation. Certification.>>  
        The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project shall notify 
        and consult with the tenants residing in the transferring 
        project and provide a certification of approval by all 
        appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) <<NOTE: Determination.>> The Secretary determines that 
        this transfer is in the best interest of the tenants.
            (7) <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>> If either the 
        transferring project or the receiving project or projects meets 
        the condition specified in subsection (d)(2)(A), any lien on the 
        receiving project resulting from additional

[[Page 138 STAT. 375]]

        financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate to any FHA-
        insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, such project 
        by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may waive this 
        requirement upon determination that such a waiver is necessary 
        to facilitate the financing of acquisition, construction, and/or 
        rehabilitation of the receiving project or projects.
            (8) <<NOTE: Records.>> If the transferring project meets the 
        requirements of subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the 
        receiving project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
        661a)) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.

    (d) <<NOTE: Definitions.>> For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q);
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), as such 
                section existed before the enactment of the Cranston-
                Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 8013); or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(b));
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 
                1701s);
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
                1);
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 202(c)(2) 
                of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(c)(2)); and

[[Page 138 STAT. 376]]

                    (F) assistance payments made under section 811(d)(2) 
                of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2));
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the receiving 
        project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.

    (e) <<NOTE: Evaluation.>> Research Report.--The Secretary shall 
conduct an evaluation of the transfer authority under this section, 
including the effect of such transfers on the operational efficiency, 
contract rents, physical and financial conditions, and long-term 
preservation of the affected properties.

    Sec. 210. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any individual 
who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
            (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
        and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
            (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).

    (b) <<NOTE: Determination.>> For purposes of determining the 
eligibility of a person to receive assistance under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial 
assistance (in excess of amounts received for tuition and any other 
required fees and charges) that an individual receives under the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.), from private sources, or 
from an institution of higher education (as defined under section 102 of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)), shall be considered 
income to that individual, except for a person over the age of 23 with 
dependent children.

    Sec. 211. <<NOTE: Allocation. Eligibility.>>  The funds made 
available for Native Alaskans under paragraph (1) under the heading 
``Native American Programs'' in title II of this Act shall be allocated 
to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant recipients that received 
funds in fiscal year 2005, and only such recipients shall be eligible to 
apply for funds made available under paragraph (2) of such heading.

[[Page 138 STAT. 377]]

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2024, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that is 
owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) or any other Federal 
programs, the Secretary shall maintain any rental assistance payments 
under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and other 
programs that are attached to any dwelling units in the 
property. <<NOTE: Determination. Contracts.>> To the extent the 
Secretary determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local 
government that such a multifamily property owned or having a mortgage 
held by the Secretary is not feasible for continued rental assistance 
payments under such section 8 or other programs, based on consideration 
of (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property and all 
available Federal, State, and local resources, including rent 
adjustments under section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform 
and Affordability Act of 1997 (in this section ``MAHRAA'') (42 U.S.C. 
1437f note), and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in 
a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in consultation with the 
tenants of that property, contract for project-based rental assistance 
payments with an owner or owners of other existing housing properties, 
or provide other rental 
assistance. <<NOTE: Contracts. Notification. Notice.>> The Secretary 
shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-based contracts 
remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
imminent major threats to health and safety after written notice to and 
informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other available 
remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After disposition 
of any multifamily property described in this section, the contract and 
allowable rent levels on such properties shall be subject to the 
requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.

    Sec. 213.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or fewer 
public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset management 
requirement imposed by the Secretary in connection with the operating 
fund rule:  Provided, That an agency seeking a discontinuance of a 
reduction of subsidy under the operating fund formula shall not be 
exempt from asset management requirements.
    Sec. 214. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437g note.>>  With respect to the use of 
amounts provided in this Act and in future Acts for the operation, 
capital improvement, and management of public housing as authorized by 
sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437g(d), (e)), the Secretary shall not impose any requirement or 
guideline relating to asset management that restricts or limits in any 
way the use of capital funds for central office costs pursuant to 
paragraph (1) or (2) of section 9(g) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  Provided, That a public housing 
agency may not use capital funds authorized under section 9(d) for 
activities that are eligible under section 9(e) for assistance with 
amounts from the operating fund in excess of the amounts permitted under 
paragraph (1) or (2) of section 9(g).

    Sec. 215. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  No official or employee of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development shall be designated as an 
allotment holder unless the Office of the Chief Financial Officer has 
determined that such allotment holder has implemented an adequate system

[[Page 138 STAT. 378]]

of funds control and has received training in funds control procedures 
and directives. The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a 
trained allotment holder for each HUD appropriation under the accounts 
``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support Offices'', ``Program 
Offices'', ``Government National Mortgage Association--Guarantees of 
Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee Program Account'', and 
``Office of Inspector General'' within the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development.

    Sec. 216. <<NOTE: Notification. Public information. Federal 
Register, publication. Notices. 42 USC 3545a note.>>  The Secretary 
shall, for fiscal year 2024, notify the public through the Federal 
Register and other means, as determined appropriate, of the issuance of 
a notice of the availability of assistance or notice of funding 
opportunity (NOFO) for any program or discretionary fund administered by 
the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. <<NOTE: Web 
posting. Determination.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
for fiscal year 2024, the Secretary may make the NOFO available only on 
the Internet at the appropriate Government website or through other 
electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.

    Sec. 217.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations.
    Sec. 218.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 percent 
or $5,000,000, whichever is less, of funds appropriated for any office 
under the headings ``Administrative Support Offices'' or ``Program 
Offices'' to any other such office under such headings:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Advance approval.>> no appropriation for any such office 
under such headings shall be increased or decreased by more than 10 
percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior written approval 
of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> the Secretary shall provide 
notification to such Committees 3 business days in advance of any such 
transfers under this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever 
is less.

    Sec. 219. (a) <<NOTE: Determination.>> Any entity receiving housing 
assistance payments shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary 
conditions, as determined by the Secretary, and comply with any 
standards under applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or 
regulations relating to the physical condition of any property covered 
under a housing assistance payment contract.

    (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) when a 
multifamily housing project with a contract under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) or a contract for 
similar project-based assistance--
            (1) receives a failing score under the Uniform Physical 
        Condition Standards (UPCS) or successor standard; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Certification. Deadlines.>> fails to certify in 
        writing to the Secretary within 3 days that all Exigent Health 
        and Safety deficiencies, or those deficiencies requiring 
        correction within 24 hours, identified by the inspector at the 
        project have been corrected.

     <<NOTE: Requirements. Applicability.>> Such requirements shall 
apply to insured and noninsured projects with assistance attached to the 
units under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437f), but shall not apply to such units assisted under section 
8(o)(13) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public housing units 
assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).

    (c)(1) <<NOTE: Deadline. Notice. Timetable. Determination.>> Within 
15 days of the issuance of the Real Estate Assessment Center (``REAC'') 
inspection, the Secretary shall provide the

[[Page 138 STAT. 379]]

owner with a Notice of Default with a specified timetable, determined by 
the Secretary, for correcting all <<NOTE: Records.>> deficiencies. The 
Secretary shall provide a copy of the Notice of Default to the tenants, 
the local government, any mortgagees, and any contract administrator. If 
the owner's appeal results in a passing score, the Secretary may 
withdraw the Notice of Default.

    (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all deficiencies 
specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner fails to fully correct 
such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
            (A) <<NOTE: Requirement.>> require immediate replacement of 
        project management with a management agent approved by the 
        Secretary;
            (B) <<NOTE: Penalties.>> impose civil money penalties, which 
        shall be used solely for the purpose of supporting safe and 
        sanitary conditions at applicable properties, as designated by 
        the Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the 
        property affected by the penalty;
            (C) <<NOTE: Abatement. Determination.>>  abate the section 8 
        contract, including partial abatement, as determined by the 
        Secretary, until all deficiencies have been corrected;
            (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
        the Secretary under established procedures, who will be 
        obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
        renewal of the assistance contract if such renewal is offered;
            (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
        project or projects and owner or owners;
            (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
        debarments from Federal programs;
            (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
        property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
        order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
        project deficiencies;
            (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
        stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
        through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
        capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
        effectuate; or
            (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
        available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary.

    (d) <<NOTE: Contracts. Notification.>> The Secretary shall take 
appropriate steps to ensure that project-based contracts remain in 
effect, subject to the exercise of contractual abatement remedies to 
assist relocation of tenants for major threats to health and safety 
after written notice to the affected 
tenants. <<NOTE: Determination.>> To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that the property is not feasible for continued rental assistance 
payments under such section 8 or other programs, based on consideration 
of--
            (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
        and all available Federal, State, and local resources, including 
        rent adjustments under section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted 
        Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (``MAHRAA''); and
            (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in a 
        cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may contract for project-
        based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of 
        other existing housing properties, or provide other rental 
        assistance.

[[Page 138 STAT. 380]]

    (e) <<NOTE: Reports. Time period.>>  The Secretary shall report 
semi-annually on all properties covered by this section that are 
assessed through the Real Estate Assessment Center and have failing 
physical inspection scores or have received an unsatisfactory management 
and occupancy review within the past 36 months. The report shall 
include--
            (1) identification of the enforcement actions being taken to 
        address such conditions, including imposition of civil money 
        penalties and termination of subsidies, and identification of 
        properties that have such conditions multiple times;
            (2) identification of actions that the Department of Housing 
        and Urban Development is taking to protect tenants of such 
        identified properties; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>> any administrative or 
        legislative recommendations to further improve the living 
        conditions at properties covered under a housing assistance 
        payment contract.

    The first report shall be submitted to the Senate and House 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 30 days after the enactment 
of this Act, and the second report shall be submitted within 180 days of 
the transmittal of the first report.
    Sec. 220.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect to 
the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used by any 
public housing agency for any amount of salary, including bonuses, for 
the chief executive officer of which, or any other official or employee 
of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic pay payable for a 
position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any time during any 
public housing agency fiscal year 2024.
    Sec. 221. <<NOTE: Grants. Notification. Deadline.>>  None of the 
funds made available by this Act and provided to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award unless 
the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
not less than 3 full business days before any project, State, locality, 
housing authority, Tribe, nonprofit organization, or other entity 
selected to receive a grant award is announced by the Department or its 
offices:  Provided, That such notification shall list each grant award 
by State and congressional district.

    Sec. 222.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Association, or the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of any mortgage 
or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise replaces a 
mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain condemnation or 
seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other political subdivision of 
a State.
    Sec. 223.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 224.  Amounts made available by this Act that are appropriated, 
allocated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or transferred to the 
Office of Policy Development and Research of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development and functions thereof, for research, evaluation, 
or statistical purposes, and that are unexpended at the time of 
completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative

[[Page 138 STAT. 381]]

agreement, may be deobligated and shall immediately become available and 
may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year for 
the research, evaluation, or statistical purposes for which the amounts 
are made available to that Office subject to reprogramming requirements 
in section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act 
may be used for awards, including performance, special act, or spot, for 
any employee of the Department of Housing and Urban Development subject 
to administrative discipline (including suspension from work), in this 
fiscal year, but this prohibition shall not be effective prior to the 
effective date of any such administrative discipline or after any final 
decision over-turning such discipline.
    Sec. 226. <<NOTE: Time period.>>  With respect to grant amounts 
awarded under the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal 
years 2015 through 2024 for the continuum of care (CoC) program as 
authorized under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act, costs paid by program income of grant recipients may 
count toward meeting the recipient's matching requirements, provided the 
costs are eligible CoC costs that supplement the recipient's CoC 
program.

    Sec. 227. <<NOTE: Grants.>> (a) From amounts made available under 
this title under the heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'', the 
Secretary may award 1-year transition grants to recipients of funds for 
activities under subtitle C of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from one continuum of care 
program component to another.

    (b) <<NOTE: Requirements. Determination.>> In order to be eligible 
to receive a transition grant, the funding recipient must have the 
consent of the continuum of care and meet standards determined by the 
Secretary.

    Sec. 228.  The promise zone designations and promise zone 
designation agreements entered into pursuant to such designations, made 
by the Secretary in prior fiscal years, shall remain in effect in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of such agreements.
    Sec. 229.  Any public housing agency designated as a Moving to Work 
agency pursuant to section 239 of division L of Public Law 114-113 (42 
U.S.C. 1437f note; 129 Stat. 2897) may, upon such designation, use funds 
(except for special purpose funding, including special purpose vouchers) 
previously allocated to any such public housing agency under section 8 
or 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, including any reserve 
funds held by the public housing agency or funds held by the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to the authority for use of 
section 8 or 9 funding provided under such section and section 204 of 
title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public 
Law 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321-28), notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated.
    Sec. 230.  None of the amounts made available by this Act may be 
used to prohibit any public housing agency under receivership or the 
direction of a Federal monitor from applying for, receiving, or using 
funds made available under the heading ``Public Housing Fund'' for 
competitive grants to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards in 
this Act or that remain available and not awarded from prior Acts, or be 
used to prohibit a public housing agency from using such funds to carry 
out any required work pursuant to a settlement agreement, consent 
decree, voluntary

[[Page 138 STAT. 382]]

agreement, or similar document for a violation of the lead safe housing 
or lead disclosure rules.
    Sec. 231.  The language under the heading ``Rental Assistance 
Demonstration'' in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (title II of division C of Public Law 112-55), 
as most recently amended by Public Law <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f note.>>  
117-103, is further amended--
            (1) in the initial undesignated matter, by striking ``and 
        `Public Housing Operating Fund' '' and inserting ``, `Public 
        Housing Operating Fund', and `Public Housing Fund' '';
            (2) in the second proviso, by striking ``2024'' and 
        inserting ``2029'';
            (3) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> after the fourth proviso, by 
        inserting the following new provisos: ``Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Requirements.>>  That at properties with 
        assistance under section 9 of the Act requesting to partially 
        convert such assistance, and where an event under section 18 of 
        the Act occurs that results in the eligibility for tenant 
        protection vouchers under section 8(o) of the Act, the Secretary 
        may convert the tenant protection voucher assistance to 
        assistance under a project-based subsidy contract under section 
        8 of the Act, which shall be eligible for renewal under section 
        524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability 
        Act of 1997, or assistance under section 8(o)(13) of the Act, so 
        long as the property meets any additional requirements 
        established by the Secretary to facilitate conversion: Provided 
        further, That to facilitate the conversion of assistance under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may transfer an amount equal 
        to the total amount that would have been allocated for tenant 
        protection voucher assistance for properties that have requested 
        such conversions from amounts made available for tenant 
        protection voucher assistance under the heading `Tenant-Based 
        Rental Assistance' to the heading `Project-Based Rental 
        Assistance': Provided further, That at properties with 
        assistance previously converted hereunder to assistance under 
        the heading `Project-Based Rental Assistance,' which are also 
        separately assisted under section 8(o)(13) of the Act, the 
        Secretary may, with the consent of the public housing agency and 
        owner, terminate such project-based subsidy contracts and 
        immediately enter into one new project-based subsidy contract 
        under section 8 of the Act, which shall be eligible for renewal 
        under section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and 
        Affordability Act of 1997, subject to the requirement that any 
        residents assisted under section 8(o)(13) of the Act at the time 
        of such termination of such project-based subsidy contract shall 
        retain all rights accrued under section 8(o)(13)(E) of the Act 
        under the new project-based subsidy contract and section 
        8(o)(13)(F)(iv) of the Act shall not apply: Provided further, 
        That to carry out the previous proviso, the Secretary may 
        transfer from the heading `Tenant-Based Rental Assistance' to 
        the heading `Project-Based Rental Assistance' an amount equal to 
        the amounts associated with such terminating contract under 
        section 8(o)(13) of the Act:'';
            (4) in the fourteenth proviso, as reordered above, by--
                    (A) inserting `` `Public Housing Fund', `Self-
                Sufficiency Programs', `Family Self-Sufficiency' '' 
                following `` `Public Housing Operating Fund',''; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 383]]

                    (B) inserting ``or the ongoing availability of 
                services for residents'' after ``effective conversion of 
                assistance under the demonstration'';
            (5) after the twenty-fourth proviso, as reordered above, by 
        inserting the following proviso: ``Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Requirements.>> That owners of 
        properties with a senior preservation rental assistance contract 
        under section 811 of the American Homeownership and Economic 
        Opportunity Act of 2000 (12 U.S.C. 1701q note), shall be 
        eligible, subject to requirements established by the Secretary 
        as necessary to facilitate the conversion of assistance while 
        maintaining the affordability period and the designation of the 
        property as serving elderly families, and tenant consultation 
        procedures, for conversion of assistance available for such 
        assistance contracts to assistance under a long-term project-
        based subsidy contract under section 8 of the Act:'';
            (6) in the twenty-ninth proviso, as reordered above, by 
        inserting ``, section 811 of the American Homeownership and 
        Economic Opportunity Act of 2000,'' after ``Housing Act of 
        1959''; and
            (7) in the thirty-fourth proviso, as reordered above, by 
        striking ``any section 202 project rental assistance contract or 
        section 811 project rental assistance contract conversions'' and 
        inserting ``the conversion of assistance from section 202(c)(2) 
        of the Housing Act of 1959, section 811 of the American 
        Homeownership and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, or section 
        811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
        Act''.

    Sec. 232. <<NOTE: Determination. Allocation.>>  For fiscal year 
2024, if the Secretary determines or has determined, for any prior 
formula grant allocation administered by the Secretary through the 
Offices of Public and Indian Housing, Community Planning and 
Development, or Housing, that a recipient received an allocation greater 
than the amount such recipient should have received for a formula 
allocation cycle pursuant to applicable statutes and regulations, the 
Secretary may adjust for any such funding error in the next applicable 
formula allocation cycle by (a) offsetting each such recipient's formula 
allocation (if eligible for a formula allocation in the next applicable 
formula allocation cycle) by the amount of any such funding error, and 
(b) reallocating any available balances that are attributable to the 
offset to the recipient or recipients that would have been allocated 
additional funds in the formula allocation cycle in which any such error 
occurred (if such recipient or recipients are eligible for a formula 
allocation in the next applicable formula allocation cycle) in an amount 
proportionate to such recipient's eligibility under the next applicable 
formula allocation cycle:  Provided, <<NOTE: Records. Reallocations.>>  
That all offsets and reallocations from such available balances shall be 
recorded against funds available for the next applicable formula 
allocation cycle:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Definition.>>  That the 
term ``next applicable formula allocation cycle'' means the first 
formula allocation cycle for a program that is reasonably available for 
correction following such a Secretarial determination:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That if, upon request by a recipient 
and giving consideration to all Federal resources available to the 
recipient for the same grant purposes, the Secretary determines that the 
offset in the next applicable formula allocation cycle would critically 
impair the recipient's ability to accomplish the purpose of the formula 
grant, the Secretary

[[Page 138 STAT. 384]]

may adjust for the funding error across two or more formula allocation 
cycles.

    Sec. 233.  The Secretary may transfer from amounts made available 
for salaries and expenses under this title (excluding amounts made 
available under the heading ``Office of Inspector General'') to the 
heading ``Information Technology Fund'' for information technology 
needs, including for additional development, modernization, and 
enhancement, to remain available until September 30, 2026:  Provided, 
That the total amount of such transfers shall not exceed $5,000,000:  
Provided further, That this transfer authority shall not be used to fund 
information technology projects or activities that have known out-year 
development, modernization, or enhancement costs in excess of $500,000:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  That the Secretary 
shall provide notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations no fewer than 3 business days in advance of any such 
transfer.

    Sec. 234. <<NOTE: Compliance. Requirements. Notice. Public 
comment. Contracts.>>  The Secretary shall comply with all process 
requirements, including public notice and comment, when seeking to 
revise any annual contributions contract.

    Sec. 235. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3539a.>>   There is hereby established in 
the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ``Department 
of Housing and Urban Development Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'' (the 
Fund):  Provided, That unobligated balances of expired discretionary 
funds appropriated for this or any succeeding fiscal year from the 
General Fund of the Treasury to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development by this or any other Act may be transferred (not later than 
the end of the fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which 
such funds are available for the purposes for which they were 
appropriated) into the Fund:  Provided further, That amounts deposited 
in the Fund shall be available until expended, in addition to such other 
funds as may be available for such purposes, for capital needs of the 
Department, including facilities infrastructure and information 
technology infrastructure, subject to approval by the Office of 
Management and Budget:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>> amounts in the Fund may be 
obligated only after the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of funds.

    Sec. 236. (a) Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
available under the heading ``Lead Hazard Reduction'' in title II of 
division L of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022 (Public Law 117-
103), $65,000,000 is hereby permanently rescinded from the amounts 
specified in paragraph (1) under such heading (excluding amounts for 
areas with the highest lead-based paint abatement needs).
    (b) Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under 
the heading ``Public Housing Fund'' in title II of division L of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328), $20,000,000 
is hereby permanently rescinded from the amounts specified in paragraph 
(7) under such heading.
    (c) Any unobligated balances (including any unobligated balances of 
contract authority) included under Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols 
86 X 0129, 86 X 0148, 86 X 0197, 86 X 0314, 86 X 0315, 86 X 0324, 86 X 
0402, 86 X 4058 and 86 X 8093 are hereby permanently rescinded.
    (d) Any unobligated balances from amounts made available under the 
heading ``Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program'' for 
the program authorized under section 1079

[[Page 138 STAT. 385]]

of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) are hereby 
permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 237.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development in this or prior Acts may be used to issue 
a solicitation or accept bids on any solicitation that is substantially 
equivalent to the draft solicitation entitled ``Housing Assistance 
Payments (HAP) Contract Support Services (HAPSS)'' posted to www.Sam.gov 
on July 27, 2022.
    Sec. 238. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  None of the amounts made 
available in this Act may be used to consider family self-sufficiency 
performance measures or performance scores in determining funding awards 
for programs receiving family self-sufficiency program coordinator 
funding provided in this Act.

    Sec. 239. <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  (a) Funds previously made 
available in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-
31) for the ``Choice Neighborhoods Initiative'' that were available for 
obligation through fiscal year 2019 are to remain available through 
fiscal year 2025 for the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in 
fiscal years 2017 through 2019.

    (b) Funds previously made available in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141) for the ``Choice 
Neighborhoods Initiative'' that were available for obligation through 
fiscal year 2020 are to remain available through fiscal year 2026 for 
the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2018 
through 2020.
    (c) Funds previously made available in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-6) for the ``Choice 
Neighborhoods Initiative'' that were available for obligation through 
fiscal year 2021 are to remain available through fiscal year 2027 for 
the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2019 
through 2021.
    (d) Funds previously made available in the Further Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94) for the ``Choice 
Neighborhoods Initiative'' that were available for obligation through 
fiscal year 2022 are to remain available through fiscal year 2028 for 
the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2020 
through 2022.
    (e) Funds previously made available in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260) for the ``Choice 
Neighborhoods Initiative'' that were available for obligation through 
fiscal year 2023 are to remain available through fiscal year 2029 for 
the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2021 
through 2023.
    (f) Funds previously made available in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141) for ``Lead Hazard 
Reduction'' that were available for obligation through fiscal year 2019 
are to remain available through fiscal year 2026 for the liquidation of 
valid obligations incurred in fiscal years 2018 through 2019.
    Sec. 240.  Of the amounts made available for the Office of Policy 
Development and Research under the heading ``Program Offices'', up to 
$3,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, may be 
transferred to the heading ``Information Technology Fund'' to be 
available for the needs of the Chief Data Officer, in addition to 
amounts otherwise available, including for additional development, 
modernization, and enhancement:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  That the

[[Page 138 STAT. 386]]

Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
no fewer than 3 business days in advance of any such transfer.

    Sec. 241.  Section 239 of division L of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-113) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f 
note.>>  is amended by striking ``2028'' and inserting ``2038''.

    Sec. 242. <<NOTE: Time 
periods. Notification. Procedures. Requirements. Allocation.>>   For 
fiscal years 2024 and 2025, the Secretary may issue a 2-year 
notification of funding opportunity, including any alternative 
procedures or requirements as may be necessary to allocate future 
appropriations in the second year, for the award of amounts made 
available for the continuum of care program under subtitle C of title IV 
of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.), 
notwithstanding any conflict with the requirements of the continuum of 
care program.

    Sec. 243. <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Requirements.>>   The Secretary 
may, upon a finding that a waiver or alternative requirement is 
necessary for the effective delivery and administration of funds made 
available for new incremental voucher assistance or renewals for the 
mainstream program and the family unification program (including the 
foster youth to independence program) in this and prior Acts, waive or 
specify alternative requirements, other than requirements related to 
tenant rights and protections, rent setting, fair housing, 
nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment, for--
            (1) section 8(o)(6)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(6)(A)) and regulatory provisions 
        related to the administration of waiting lists, local 
        preferences, and the initial term and extensions of tenant-based 
        vouchers; and
            (2) section 8(x)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
        (42 U.S.C. 1437f(x)(2)) regarding the timing of referral of 
        youth leaving foster care.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2024''.



__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 387]]

                                TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 792), 
$9,955,000:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
there may be credited to this appropriation funds received for 
publications and training expenses.

                       Federal Maritime Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 46107 of title 46, United States Code, including 
services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of 
title 31, United States Code; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code, 
$40,000,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2025:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,500 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                 National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3), $29,240,000:  
Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, 
in carrying out the duties specified in such Act, to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the Government under 
section 1001 of title 18, United States Code, by any person or entity 
that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation:  Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Inspector 
General may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, 
studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies and with 
private persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern the obtaining of such services within the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General may 
select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be 
necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the 
Office of Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and 
regulations that govern such selections, appointments, and employment 
within the National Railroad Passenger Corporation:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Budget request.>> That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2025, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2025 in similar

[[Page 138 STAT. 388]]

format and substance to budget requests submitted by executive agencies 
of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate 
for a GS-15; uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code, $140,000,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 may be used for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $158,000,000.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $47,452,000:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees established by the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading:  Provided further, That the amounts made available 
under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-
for-dollar basis as such offsetting collections are received during 
fiscal year 2024, to result in a final appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at not more than $46,202,000.

            United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses, including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, of the United States Interagency Council 
on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title II of 
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, $4,300,000.

[[Page 138 STAT. 389]]

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  The expenditure of any appropriation 
under this Act for any consulting service through a procurement contract 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive Order 
issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2024, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and available 
to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for a 
        different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;

[[Page 138 STAT. 390]]

            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) <<NOTE: Advance approval.>> creates, reorganizes, or 
        restructures a branch, division, office, bureau, board, 
        commission, agency, administration, or department different from 
        the budget justifications submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations or the table accompanying the explanatory 
        statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
        division A of this consolidated Act), whichever is more 
        detailed, unless prior approval is received from the House and 
        Senate Committees on Appropriations:

  Provided, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and of 
the House of Representatives to establish the baseline for application 
of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current fiscal year:  
Provided further, That the report shall include--
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> a delineation in the 
                table for each appropriation and its respective prior 
                year enacted level by object class and program, project, 
                and activity as detailed in this Act, the table 
                accompanying the explanatory statement described in 
                section 4 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
                consolidated Act), accompanying reports of the House and 
                Senate Committees on Appropriations, or in the budget 
                appendix for the respective appropriations, whichever is 
                more detailed, and shall apply to all items for which a 
                dollar amount is specified and to all programs for which 
                new budget (obligational) authority is provided, as well 
                as to discretionary grants and discretionary grant 
                allocations; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.

    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 2024 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 2024 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2025, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, <<NOTE: Advance approval. Expenditure 
requests.>> That a request shall be submitted to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds:  Provided further, That these <<NOTE: Compliance.>> requests 
shall be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 
405 of this Act.

    Sec. 407. <<NOTE: Eminent domain.>>  No funds in this Act may be 
used to support any Federal, State, or local projects that seek to use 
the power of eminent domain, unless eminent domain is employed only for 
a public use:  Provided, That for purposes of this section, public use 
shall not be construed to include economic development that primarily 
benefits private entities:  Provided further, That any use of funds for 
mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as 
utility projects which benefit or serve the general public (including 
energy-related, communication-related, water-related and wastewater-
related infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the 
general public or which have other

[[Page 138 STAT. 391]]

common-carrier or public-utility functions that serve the general public 
and are subject to regulation and oversight by the government, and 
projects for the removal of an immediate threat to public health and 
safety or brownfields as defined in the Small Business Liability Relief 
and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be 
considered a public use for purposes of eminent domain.

    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 409. <<NOTE: Compliance.>>   No funds appropriated pursuant to 
this Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
expending the assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 
4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, popularly known as 
the ``Buy American Act'').

    Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
    Sec. 411.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 301-
10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 412. <<NOTE: Conference attendees. Reports. Time period.>>  
None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to send or 
otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees of a single 
agency or department of the United States Government, who are stationed 
in the United States, at any single international conference unless the 
relevant Secretary reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that such attendance is 
important to the national interest:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Definition.>> for purposes of this section the term 
``international conference'' shall mean a conference occurring outside 
of the United States attended by representatives of the United States 
Government and of foreign governments, international organizations, or 
nongovernmental organizations.

    Sec. 413.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation Board 
to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or practice complaints 
filed with the Board in an amount in excess of the amount authorized for 
district court civil suit filing fees under section 1914 of title 28, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 414. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 415. <<NOTE: Records.>>  (a) None of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used to deny an Inspector General funded under this 
Act timely access to any records, documents, or other materials 
available to the department or agency over which that Inspector General 
has responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of

[[Page 138 STAT. 392]]

1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's 
access to such records, documents, or other materials, under any 
provision of law, except a provision of law that expressly refers to the 
Inspector General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of 
access.

    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide its 
Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and other 
materials in a timely manner.
    (c) <<NOTE: Compliance.>> Each Inspector General shall ensure 
compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure relevant to the 
information provided by the establishment over which that Inspector 
General has responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.).

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports. Compliance.>>  Each Inspector General covered 
by this section shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 5 calendar days any 
failures to comply with this requirement.

    Sec. 416. <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to pay 
award or incentive fees for contractors whose performance has been 
judged to be below satisfactory, behind schedule, over budget, or has 
failed to meet the basic requirements of a contract, unless the Agency 
determines that any such deviations are due to unforeseeable events, 
government-driven scope changes, or are not significant within the 
overall scope of the project and/or program unless such awards or 
incentive fees are consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulations.

    Sec. 417. <<NOTE: Deadline. Time period. Certification.>>  No part 
of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to pay the 
salary for any person filling a position, other than a temporary 
position, formerly held by an employee who has left to enter the Armed 
Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily completed his or her 
period of active military or naval service, and has within 90 days after 
his or her release from such service or from hospitalization continuing 
after discharge for a period of not more than 1 year, made application 
for restoration to his or her former position and has been certified by 
the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to perform the 
duties of his or her former position and has not been restored thereto.

    Sec. 418. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the U.S.-
E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval would 
contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-
Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 419. (a) In the table of projects in the explanatory statement 
referenced in section 417 of the Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2022 (division L 
of Public Law 117-103)--
            (1) the item relating to ``Midland Center for the Arts only 
        for structural improvements'' is deemed to be amended by

[[Page 138 STAT. 393]]

        striking recipient ``City of Midland'' and inserting ``Midland 
        Center for the Arts'';
            (2) the item relating to ``Barren County Fiscal Court--
        Chapatcha Industrial Park Development'' is deemed to be amended 
        by striking project ``Barren County Fiscal Court--Chapatcha 
        Industrial Park Development'' and inserting ``Barren County 
        Fiscal Court--Chapatcha Industrial Park or South Cooper 
        Industrial Park Development'';
            (3) the item relating to ``Pasco County Board of County 
        Commissioners--Rural Northwest Pasco Community Park Site 
        Acquisition'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Northwest'' 
        and inserting ``Northeast'';
            (4) the item relating to ``Wood County Development 
        Authority--Site Readiness & Redevelopment Downtown Parkersburg'' 
        is deemed to be amended by striking ``Wood County Development 
        Authority--Site Readiness & Redevelopment Downtown Parkersburg'' 
        and inserting ``Redevelopment of Downtown Parkersburg'';
            (5) the item relating to ``Rosemary's Way Penacook 
        Affordable Housing'' is deemed to be amended by striking 
        recipient ``CATCH Neighborhood Housing'' and inserting ``Concord 
        Area Trust for Community Housing'';
            (6) the item relating to ``Lead Safe Home Fund'' is deemed 
        to be amended by striking recipient ``Lead Safe Cleveland 
        Coalition'' and inserting ``Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation'';
            (7) the item relating to ``Boys & Girls Club in Miami 
        Gardens'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Club in Miami 
        Gardens'' and inserting ``Clubs within the Miami-Dade area'';
            (8) the item relating to ``Acquisition of new commercial 
        space'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``Acquisition of new 
        commercial space'' and inserting ``Renovation of community 
        center'';
            (9) the item relating to ``North Commons Regional Vision'' 
        is deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``Minneapolis Park 
        and Recreation Board'' and inserting ``City of Minneapolis'';
            (10) the item relating to ``Electric school bus and 
        associated electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure'' is 
        deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``Falls Church City 
        Public Schools'' and inserting ``City of Falls Church'';
            (11) the item relating to ``A PLACE 4 ALICE facility 
        improvement'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``A PLACE 4 
        ALICE facility improvement'' and inserting ``Affordable Housing 
        and Community Facilities''; and

    (b) In the table of projects entitled ``Community Project Funding/
Congressionally Directed Spending'' in the explanatory statement for 
division L of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-
328) described in section 4 in the matter preceding division A of such 
Act--
            (1) the item relating to ``River Road Homes Affordable 
        Housing Infrastructure'' is deemed to be amended by striking 
        recipient ``Town of Canaan'' and inserting ``Falls Village 
        Housing Trust Inc.'';
            (2) the item relating to ``The Star Community Family Life 
        Center'' is deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``The 
        Star Community Family Life Center'' and inserting ``MSBC Five 
        Star Program, Inc.'';

[[Page 138 STAT. 394]]

            (3) the item relating to ``Early Learning Childcare Center 
        Construction'' (recipient ``The Caring Place'') is deemed to be 
        amended by striking ``Early Learning Childcare Center 
        Construction'' and inserting ``CARE Center construction'';
            (4) the item relating to ``Upper Bucks Rail Trail'' is 
        deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``Appalachian 
        Mountain Club'' and inserting ``The County of Bucks'';
            (5) the item relating to ``YMCA & Albion College Initiative 
        of the Washington Gardner Center Building Renovation and 
        Expansion'' is deemed to be amended by striking ``YMCA & Albion 
        College Initiative of the Washington Gardner Center Building 
        Renovation and Expansion'' and inserting ``Site improvements'';
            (6) the item relating to ``Wood County Industrial Site 
        Readiness and Redevelopment'' is deemed to be amended by 
        striking ``Wood County Industrial Site Readiness & 
        Redevelopment'' and inserting ``Redevelopment of Downtown 
        Parkersburg'';
            (7) the item relating to ``B-360 Educational Campus'' is 
        deemed to be amended by striking ``I Am Mentality, Inc.'' and 
        inserting ``B-360 Baltimore, Inc.'';
            (8) the item relating to ``Riverbrook Regional YMCA'' is 
        deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``Riverbrook Regional 
        Young Men's Christian Association, Inc.'' and inserting ``City 
        of Norwalk'';
            (9) the item relating to ``Miami Veterans Housing Project'' 
        is deemed to be amended by striking recipient ``United Way 
        Miami'' and inserting ``CRC Leadership, Inc.'';
            (10) the item relating to ``Supportive Living, Community Day 
        Services, and Housing Site Project for Adults with Intellectual 
        and Developmental Disabilities'' is deemed to be amended by 
        striking ``, Community Day Services, and Housing'';
            (11) the item relating to ``Public Library Addition'' is 
        deemed to be amended by striking ``Addition'' and inserting 
        ``Renovation'';
            (12) the item relating to ``Renovation of Snelling Motel to 
        Affordable Housing for Veterans'' is deemed to be amended by 
        striking ``Snelling Motel to'' and inserting ``Hotel for'';
            (13) the item relating to ``Indigenous Farm Hub'' is deemed 
        to be amended by striking recipient ``Tides Center'' and 
        inserting ``Native American Community Academy Inspired Schools 
        Network (NISN)'';
            (14) the item relating to ``El Centro de la Raza--Pattison's 
        West Community Campus Property Acquisition'' is deemed to be 
        amended by striking ``El Centro de la Raza--Pattison's West 
        Community Campus Property Acquisition'' and inserting 
        ``Pattison's West Community Campus'';
            (15) the item relating to ``Road Raising & Flood Resiliency 
        for Amity Harbor and American Venice Project'' is deemed to be 
        amended by striking ``Road Raising & Flood Resiliency for Amity 
        Harbor and American Venice Project'' and inserting ``Town of 
        Babylon Federal Aid Roadway Improvement Project'';
            (16) the item relating to ``Dayton International Airport 
        (DAY)--Northeast Logistics Access Project'' is amended by 
        striking ``Dayton International Airport (DAY)--Northeast 
        Logistics Access Project'' and inserting ``Infrastructure 
        capital improvements, including street, wastewater and sewer 
        line improvements'';

[[Page 138 STAT. 395]]

            (17) the item relating to ``Help Me Grow Skagit Family 
        Resource Center Expansion'' is deemed to be amended by striking 
        recipient ``Children's Council of Skagit County'' and inserting 
        ``Children's Museum of Skagit County''; and
            (18) the item relating to ``Permanent Supportive Housing 
        Properties Acquisition'' is deemed to be amended by striking 
        ``Permanent Supportive Housing Properties Acquisition'' and 
        inserting ``Permanent Supportive Housing Acquisition, 
        Development and Rehabilitation''.

    Sec. 420.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in contravention of 
section 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155).
    Sec. 421.  None of the funds made available by this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be used in contravention of section 
306108 of title 54, United States Code.
    Sec. 422.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to require the use of inward facing cameras or require a 
motor carrier to register an apprenticeship program with the Department 
of Labor as a condition for participation in the safe driver 
apprenticeship pilot program.
    Sec. 423.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to direct a grantee 
to undertake specific changes to existing zoning laws as part of 
carrying out the final rule entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled 
``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 
57949 (September 26, 2014)).
    Sec. 424.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of existing Federal law regarding non-citizen 
eligibility and ineligibility for occupancy in federally assisted 
housing or for participation in and assistance under Federal housing 
programs, including section 214 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 1436a) and title IV of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 
1601 et seq.).
    Sec. 425. <<NOTE: Permits.>>  Section 127 of title 23, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting at the end the following:
            ``(x) Certain agricultural vehicles in the state of 
        mississippi.--
            ``(1) In general.--The State of Mississippi may allow, by 
        special permit, the operation of a covered agricultural vehicle 
        on the Interstate System in the State of Mississippi if such 
        vehicle does not exceed--
                    ``(A) a gross vehicle weight of 88,000 pounds; and
                    ``(B) 110 percent of the maximum weight on any axle 
                or axle group described in subsection (a)(2), including 
                any enforcement tolerance.
            ``(2) Covered agricultural vehicle defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `covered agricultural vehicle' means a 
        vehicle that is transporting unprocessed agricultural crops used 
        for food, feed or fiber, or raw or unfinished forest products, 
        including logs, pulpwood, biomass or wood chips.
            ``(y) Operation of Certain Vehicles in West Virginia.--
                    ``(1) In general.--The State of West Virginia may 
                allow, by special permit, the operation of a vehicle 
                that is transporting materials and equipment on the 
                Interstate

[[Page 138 STAT. 396]]

                System in the State of West Virginia if such vehicle 
                does not exceed 110 percent of the maximum weight on any 
                axle or axle group described in subsection (a)(2), 
                including any enforcement tolerance, provided the 
                remaining gross vehicle weight requirements of 
                subsection (a) are met.
                    ``(2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
                `materials and equipment' means materials and equipment 
                that are used on a project eligible under this 
                chapter.''.

    Sec. 426. <<NOTE: Mask mandate.>>   None of the funds appropriated 
or made available by this division for the Department of Transportation 
for fiscal year 2024 may be used to enforce a mask mandate in response 
to the COVID-19 virus.

    This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and 
Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2024''.




__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Editorial note: The text above is the only information printed on 
this page of the signed law.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 397]]

                        DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS

TITLE I <<NOTE: Time periods.>> --HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                   Subtitle A--Public Health Extenders

SEC. 101. EXTENSION FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS, NATIONAL HEALTH 
                        SERVICE CORPS, AND TEACHING HEALTH CENTERS 
                        THAT OPERATE GME PROGRAMS.

    (a) Extension for Community Health Centers.--Section 10503(b)(1)(F) 
of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b-
2(b)(1)(F)) is amended by striking ``and $536,986,301 for the period 
beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``$536,986,301 for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, 
and ending on March 8, 2024, and $3,592,328,767 for the period beginning 
on October 1, 2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Extension for the National Health Service Corps.--Section 
10503(b)(2)(I) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
U.S.C. 254b-2(b)(2)(I)) is amended by striking ``and $41,616,438 for the 
period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``$41,616,438 for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, 
and ending on March 8, 2024, and $297,013,699 for the period beginning 
on October 1, 2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
    (c) Teaching Health Centers That Operate Graduate Medical Education 
Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Section 340H(g)(1) of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``and 
        $16,982,192 for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and 
        ending on March 8, 2024'' and inserting ``$16,982,192 for the 
        period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 
        2024, and $164,136,986 for the period beginning on October 1, 
        2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
            (2) Addition to capped amounts.--Section 340H(b)(2) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h(b)(2)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Addition.--Notwithstanding any provision of 
                this section, for the period beginning on October 1, 
                2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, the Secretary may 
                use any amounts made available in any fiscal year to 
                carry out this section (including amounts recouped under 
                subsection (f)) to make payments described in paragraphs 
                (1)(A) and (1)(B), in addition to the total amount of 
                funds appropriated under subsection (g).''.
            (3) Report to congress.--For the period beginning on October 
        1, 2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services shall submit to the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
        Senate a report specifying--
                    (A) the total amount of funds recouped under 
                subsection (f) of section 340H of the Public Health 
                Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256h);

[[Page 138 STAT. 398]]

                    (B) the rationale for the funds being recouped; and
                    (C) the total amount of funds recouped under 
                subsection (f) of such section 340H that were used 
                pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C) of such section 340H to 
                adjust total payment amounts above the total amounts 
                appropriated under subsection (g) of such section 340H, 
                as amended by paragraph (3).

    (d) Application of Provisions.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
amendments made by this section shall be subject to the requirements 
contained in Public Law 117-328 for funds for programs authorized under 
sections 330 through 340 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
254b et seq.).
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3014(h)(4) of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``and section 101(d) of the Further 
Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024'' 
and inserting ``section 101(d) of the Further Additional Continuing 
Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024, and section 101(d) of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024''.
SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF SPECIAL DIABETES PROGRAMS.

    (a) Extension of Special Diabetes Programs for Type I Diabetes.--
Section 330B(b)(2)(E) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-
2(b)(2)(E)) is amended by striking ``and $20,136,986 for the period 
beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``$20,136,986 for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, 
and ending on March 8, 2024, and $130,000,000 for the period beginning 
on March 9, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Extending Funding for Special Diabetes Programs for Indians.--
Section 330C(c)(2)(E) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-
3(c)(2)(E)) is amended by striking ``and $20,136,986 for the period 
beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``$20,136,986 for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, 
and ending on March 8, 2024, and $130,000,000 for the period beginning 
on March 9, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
SEC. 103. NATIONAL HEALTH SECURITY EXTENSIONS.

    (a) Section 319(e)(8) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
247d(e)(8)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Section 319L(e)(1)(D) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 247d-7e(e)(1)(D)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    (c) Section 319L-1(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
247d-7f(b)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.
    (d)(1) Section 2811A(g) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10b(g)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.
    (2) Section 2811B(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10c(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.
    (3) Section 2811C(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10d(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2024''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 399]]

    (e) Section 2812(c)(4)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300hh-11(c)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``March 8, 2024'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

                          Subtitle B--Medicaid

SEC. 201. REQUIREMENT FOR STATE MEDICAID PLANS TO PROVIDE COVERAGE 
                        FOR MEDICATION-ASSISTED TREATMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 1905 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(29), by striking ``for the period 
        beginning October 1, 2020, and ending September 30, 2025,'' and 
        inserting ``beginning on October 1, 2020,''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Certification.>> in subsection (ee)(2), by 
        striking ``for the period specified in such paragraph, if before 
        the beginning of such period the State certifies to the 
        satisfaction of the Secretary'' and inserting ``if such State 
        certifies, not less than every 5 years and to the satisfaction 
        of the Secretary,''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1006(b)(4)(A) of the Substance 
Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for 
Patients and Communities Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended by 
striking ``, and before October 1, 2025''.
SEC. 202. COLLECTION AND REPORTING OF COMPREHENSIVE DATA FOR 
                        SPECIFIED POPULATIONS ENROLLED IN MEDICAID 
                        AND CHIP.

    Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 1948. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396w-8.>>  COLLECTION AND REPORTING 
                          OF COMPREHENSIVE DATA FOR SPECIFIED 
                          POPULATIONS.

    ``(a) Recurring Analysis and Publication of Health Care Data Related 
to Treatment for Substance Use Disorder or a Mental Health Condition.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting.>>  In 
        general.--The Secretary, on an annual basis, shall link, 
        analyze, and publish on a publicly available website data 
        reported by States through the Transformed Medicaid Statistical 
        Information System (T-MSIS) (or a successor system) relating to 
        substance use disorder and mental health services provided to 
        individuals enrolled under a State plan under this title or a 
        State child health plan under title XXI (or under a waiver of 
        such plans) who have been diagnosed with a substance use 
        disorder or mental health condition, including an analysis that 
        is disaggregated by age. <<NOTE: Privacy.>>  Such enrollee 
        information shall be de-identified of any personally identifying 
        information, shall adhere to privacy standards established by 
        the Department of Health and Human Services, and shall be 
        aggregated to protect the privacy of enrollees, as necessary.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: District of Columbia. Territories.>>  
        Requirements.--The analysis required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, at a minimum, the following data for each State 
        (including, to the extent available, for the District of 
        Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, 
        the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa):
                    ``(A) The number and percentage of individuals 
                enrolled under the State plan under this title or the 
                State child health plan under title XXI (or under a 
                waiver of such plans) in each of the major enrollment 
                categories (as

[[Page 138 STAT. 400]]

                defined in a public letter from the Medicaid and CHIP 
                Payment and Access Commission to the Secretary) who have 
                been diagnosed with--
                          ``(i) a substance use disorder;
                          ``(ii) a mental health condition; or
                          ``(iii) a co-occurring substance use disorder 
                      and mental health condition.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: List.>> With respect to individuals 
                enrolled under the State plan under this title or the 
                State child health plan under title XXI (or under a 
                waiver of such plans) who have received a diagnosis 
                described in subparagraph (A), a list of the substance 
                use disorder and mental health treatment services, 
                including, to the extent such data are available, 
                specific adult and pediatric services by each major type 
                of service, such as counseling, intensive home-based 
                services, intensive care coordination, crisis services 
                tailored to children and youth, peer support services, 
                family-to-family support, inpatient hospitalization, 
                medication-assisted treatment, residential treatment, 
                and other appropriate services as identified by the 
                Secretary, for which beneficiaries in each State 
                received at least 1 service under the State plan under 
                this title or the State child health plan under title 
                XXI (or under a waiver of such plans).
                    ``(C) With respect to each diagnosis described in 
                subparagraph (A), the number and percentage of 
                individuals enrolled under the State plan under this 
                title or the State child health plan under title XXI (or 
                under a waiver of such plans) who have such diagnosis 
                and received services for such diagnosis under such plan 
                or waiver by each major type of treatment service listed 
                under subparagraph (B) within each major setting type, 
                such as outpatient, inpatient, residential, and other 
                home-based and community-based settings.
                    ``(D) The number of services provided under the 
                State plan under this title or the State child health 
                plan under title XXI (or under a waiver of such plans) 
                per individual enrolled under such plan or waiver who 
                has a diagnosis described in subparagraph (A) for each 
                such diagnosis and each major type of treatment service 
                listed under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(E) The number and percentage of individuals 
                enrolled under the State plan under this title or the 
                State child health plan under title XXI (or under a 
                waiver of such plans) by major enrollment category, who 
                have a diagnosis described in subparagraph (A) and 
                received substance use disorder or mental health 
                treatment through--
                          ``(i) a Medicaid managed care entity (as 
                      defined in section 1932(a)(1)(B)), including the 
                      number of such individuals who received such 
                      assistance through a prepaid inpatient health plan 
                      (as defined by the Secretary) or a prepaid 
                      ambulatory health plan (as defined by the 
                      Secretary);
                          ``(ii) a fee-for-service payment model; or
                          ``(iii) an alternative payment model, to the 
                      extent available.

[[Page 138 STAT. 401]]

                    ``(F) The number and percentage of individuals 
                enrolled under the State plan under this title or the 
                State child health plan under title XXI (or under a 
                waiver of such plans) who have a diagnosis described in 
                subparagraph (A) and received services for a mental 
                health condition or a substance use disorder in an 
                outpatient or community-based or home-based setting 
                after receiving mental health or substance use disorder 
                services in an inpatient or residential setting, and the 
                number of mental health or substance use disorder 
                services received by such individuals in the outpatient 
                or community-based or home-based setting.
                    ``(G) The number and percentage of inpatient 
                admissions in which services for a mental health 
                condition or substance use disorder were provided to an 
                individual enrolled under the State plan under this 
                title or the State child health plan under title XXI (or 
                under a waiver of such plans) that occurred within 30 
                days after discharge from a hospital or residential 
                facility in which services for a mental health condition 
                or substance use disorder previously were provided to 
                such individual, disaggregated by each diagnosis 
                described in subparagraph (A) and type of facility, to 
                the extent such information is available.
                    ``(H) The number of emergency department visits by 
                an individual enrolled under the State plan under this 
                title or the State child health plan under title XXI (or 
                under a waiver of such plans) who has a diagnosis 
                described in subparagraph (A) within 7 days of such 
                individual being discharged from an inpatient stay at a 
                hospital during which services for a mental health 
                condition or substance use disorder were provided, or 
                from a mental health facility, an independent 
                psychiatric wing of an acute care hospital, an 
                intermediate care facility for individuals with 
                intellectual disabilities, or a residential treatment 
                facility, disaggregated by each diagnosis described in 
                subparagraph (A) and type of facility, to the extent 
                such information is available.
                    ``(I) <<NOTE: Assessments.>> The number and 
                percentage of individuals who are enrolled under the 
                State plan under this title or the State child health 
                plan under title XXI (or under a waiver of such plans) 
                and received an assessment for a mental health 
                condition.
                    ``(J) <<NOTE: Assessments.>>  The number and 
                percentage of individuals who are enrolled under the 
                State plan under this title or the State child health 
                plan under title XXI (or under a waiver of such plans) 
                and received an assessment for a substance use disorder.
                    ``(K) <<NOTE: Assessments.>> The number of mental 
                health services provided to individuals enrolled under 
                the State plan under this title or the State child 
                health plan under title XXI (or under a waiver of such 
                plans) who received an assessment described in 
                subparagraph (I) in the 30 days post-assessment.
                    ``(L) <<NOTE: Assessments.>> The number of substance 
                use disorder treatment services provided to individuals 
                enrolled under the State plan under this title or the 
                State child health plan under title XXI (or under a 
                waiver of such plans) who received

[[Page 138 STAT. 402]]

                an assessment described in subparagraph (J) in the 30 
                days post-assessment.
                    ``(M) Prescription National Drug Code codes, fill 
                dates, and number of days supply of any covered 
                outpatient drug (as defined in section 1927(k)(2)) that 
                was dispensed to an individual enrolled under the State 
                plan under this title or the State child health plan 
                under title XXI (or under a waiver of such plans) with 
                an episode described in subparagraph (G) or (H) during 
                any period that occurs after the individual's discharge 
                date defined in subparagraph (G) or (H) (as applicable), 
                and before the admission date applicable under 
                subparagraph (G) or the date of the emergency department 
                visit applicable under subparagraph (H) that were--
                          ``(i) to treat a mental health condition; or
                          ``(ii) to treat a substance use disorder.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  Publication.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Public information. Analysis.>>  In general.--
        Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this 
        section, the Secretary shall make publicly available the first 
        analysis required by subsection (a).
            ``(2) Annual updates.--The Secretary shall issue an updated 
        version of the analysis required under subsection (a) not later 
        than January 1 of each calendar year.
            ``(3) Use of t-msis data.--The analysis required under 
        subsection (a) and updates required under paragraph (4) shall--
                    ``(A) use data and definitions from the T-MSIS data 
                set that is no more than 12 months old on the date that 
                the analysis or update is published; and
                    ``(B) as appropriate, include a description with 
                respect to each State of the quality and completeness of 
                the data and caveats describing the limitations of the 
                data reported to the Secretary by the State that is 
                sufficient to communicate the appropriate uses for the 
                information.
            ``(4) Revised publication.--Beginning not later than 3 years 
        after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary 
        annually shall publish a revised publication of the analysis 
        required by subsection (a) that allows for a research-ready and 
        publicly accessible interface of the publication and is 
        developed after consultation with stakeholders on the usability 
        of the data contained in the publication.
            ``(5) Making t-msis data on substance use disorders and 
        mental health conditions available to researchers.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to publish system of records 
                notice.--
                          ``(i) <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
                      publication.>> In general.--Subject to 
                      subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall publish in 
                      the Federal Register a system of records notice 
                      for the data specified in clause (ii) for the 
                      Transformed Medicaid Statistical Information 
                      System, in accordance with section 552a(e)(4) of 
                      title 5, United States Code. The notice shall 
                      outline policies that protect the security and 
                      privacy of the data that, at a minimum, meet the 
                      security and privacy policies of SORN 09-70-0541 
                      for the Medicaid Statistical Information System.
                          ``(ii) <<NOTE: District of 
                      Columbia. Territories.>> Required data.--The data 
                      covered by the systems of records notice required 
                      under clause (i) shall be sufficient for 
                      researchers and States to analyze

[[Page 138 STAT. 403]]

                      the prevalence of conditions described in 
                      subsection (a)(2)(A) in the Medicaid and 
                      Children's Health Insurance Program beneficiary 
                      population and the treatment of such conditions 
                      under Medicaid across all States (including the 
                      District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United 
                      States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana 
                      Islands, and American Samoa), forms of treatment, 
                      and treatment settings.
                          ``(iii) Initiation of data-sharing 
                      activities.--Not later than January 1, 2025, the 
                      Secretary shall initiate the data-sharing 
                      activities outlined in the notice required under 
                      clause (i).
                    ``(B) Satisfaction of requirement through existing 
                system of records notice. <<NOTE: Determination.>> --The 
                Secretary shall not be required to publish a new system 
                of records notice as required under subparagraph (A) if, 
                not later than January 1, 2025, the Secretary determines 
                that the system of records notice published by the 
                Secretary in the Federal Register on February 6, 2019 
                (84 Fed. Reg. 2230), satisfies the requirements 
                described in subparagraph (A).''.
SEC. 203. MONITORING PRESCRIBING OF ANTIPSYCHOTIC MEDICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1902(oo)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1396a(oo)(1)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in the subparagraph heading, by striking ``by 
        children'';
            (2) by striking ``children enrolled'' and inserting 
        ``children generally, children in foster care specifically, 
        individuals over the age of 18 receiving home and community-
        based services (as defined in section 9817(a)(2)(B) of Public 
        Law 117-2), and individuals over the age of 18 residing in 
        institutional care settings (including nursing facilities, 
        intermediate care facilities for individuals with intellectual 
        disabilities, institutions for mental diseases, inpatient 
        psychiatric hospitals, and other such institutional care 
        settings) enrolled''; and
            (3) by striking ``not more than the age of 18 years'' 
        through the period at the end and inserting ``subject to the 
        program, including information with respect to each such 
        category of children and individuals over the age of 18.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 24 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 204. EXTENSION OF STATE OPTION TO PROVIDE MEDICAL ASSISTANCE 
                        FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS IN INSTITUTIONS 
                        FOR MENTAL DISEASES.

    (a) Making Permanent State Plan Amendment Option To Provide Medical 
Assistance for Certain Individuals Who Are Patients in Certain 
Institutions for Mental <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Diseases.--Section 
1915(l)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)(1)) is amended 
by striking ``With respect to calendar quarters beginning during the 
period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending September 30, 2023,'' and 
inserting ``With respect to calendar quarters beginning on or after 
October 1, 2019,''.

    (b) Maintenance of Effort Revision.--Section 1915(l)(3) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--

[[Page 138 STAT. 404]]

                    (A) by striking ``other than under this title from 
                non-Federal funds'' and all that follows through 
                ``subparagraph (B))'' and inserting ``from non-Federal 
                funds for items and services (including services 
                described in subparagraph (B))''; and
                    (B) by striking ``such items and services'' and all 
                that follows through the period and inserting ``such 
                items and services for, at the option of the State--
                          ``(i) fiscal year 2018; or
                          ``(ii) the most recently ended fiscal year as 
                      of the date the State submits a State plan 
                      amendment to the Secretary to provide such medical 
                      assistance in accordance with this subsection.'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subparagraph 
        (A)(ii)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Application of maintenance of effort 
                requirements to certain states.-- <<NOTE: Effective 
                date.>> In the case of a State with a State plan 
                amendment in effect on September 30, 2023, for the 1-
                year period beginning on the date of enactment of this 
                subparagraph, the provisions of subparagraph (A) shall 
                be applied as if the amendments to such subparagraph 
                made by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 had 
                never been made.''.

    (c) Additional Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) General requirements.--Section 1915(l)(4) of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)(4)) is amended--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``through 
                      (D)'' and inserting ``through (F)'';
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Criteria.>>  in subparagraph 
                      (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Prior to approval 
                                of a State plan amendment under this 
                                subsection, the State shall notify the 
                                Secretary of how the State will ensure'' 
                                and inserting ``The State shall have in 
                                place evidence-based, substance use 
                                disorder-specific individual placement 
                                criteria and utilization management 
                                approaches to ensure placement of 
                                eligible individuals in an appropriate 
                                level of care, including criteria and 
                                approaches to ensure''; and
                                    (II) <<NOTE: Notification.>> by 
                                adding at the end the following 
                                sentence: ``The State shall notify the 
                                Secretary at such time and in such form 
                                and manner as the Secretary shall 
                                require of such criteria and utilization 
                                management approaches.''; and
                          (iii) by adding at the end the following new 
                      subparagraph:
                    ``(E) <<NOTE: Compliance.>> Review process.--The 
                State shall, using nationally recognized substance use 
                disorder-specific program standards, have in place a 
                process to review the compliance of eligible 
                institutions for mental diseases with such program 
                standards specified by the State.''.
                    (B) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396n note.>>  Effective date.--
                The amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall apply with 
                respect to States providing medical assistance for items 
                and services pursuant to a State plan amendment under 
                section 1915(l) of the

[[Page 138 STAT. 405]]

                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)) in calendar 
                quarters beginning on or after October 1, 2025.
            (2) One-time assessment.--Section 1915(l)(4) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)(4)), as amended by paragraph 
        (1), is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(F) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Assessment.--
                          ``(i) In general.--The State shall, not later 
                      than 12 months after the approval of a State plan 
                      amendment described in this subsection (or, in the 
                      case of a State that has such an amendment 
                      approved as of September 30, 2023, not later than 
                      12 months after the date of enactment of this 
                      subparagraph), commence an assessment of--
                                    ``(I) the availability of treatment 
                                for individuals enrolled under a State 
                                plan under this title (or waiver of such 
                                plan) in each level of care described in 
                                subparagraph (C), including how such 
                                availability varies by region of the 
                                State; and
                                    ``(II) the availability of 
                                medication-assisted treatment and 
                                medically supervised withdrawal 
                                management services for such 
                                individuals, including how such 
                                availability varies by region of the 
                                State.
                          ``(ii) Required completion.--The State shall 
                      complete an assessment described in clause (i) not 
                      later than 12 months after the date the State 
                      commences such assessment.''.
            (3) Clarification of levels of care.--Section 1915(l) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)(C)(ii), by striking ``problems 
                in Dimensions 1, 2, or 3'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``conditions''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (7), by striking subparagraph (A) 
                and redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (D) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective dates. 42 USC 1396n note.>>  Application to 
Certain States.--Notwithstanding section 430.20 of title 42, Code of 
Federal Regulations, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may 
approve a request to renew a State plan amendment under section 1915(l) 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(l)) with an effective date 
of October 1, 2023, if the State making such request--
            (1) had approval for a State plan amendment under such 
        section as of September 30, 2023; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  submits the request to renew such 
        amendment not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
SEC. 205. PROHIBITION ON TERMINATION OF ENROLLMENT DUE TO 
                        INCARCERATION.

    (a) Medicaid.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1902(a)(84)(A) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(84)(A)), as amended by section 
        5122(a)(2) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public 
        Law 117-328), <<NOTE: 136 Stat. 5944.>> is further amended--
                    (A) by striking ``under the State plan'' and 
                inserting ``under the State plan (or waiver of such 
                plan)'';

[[Page 138 STAT. 406]]

                    (B) by striking ``who is an eligible juvenile (as 
                defined in subsection (nn)(2))'';
                    (C) by striking ``because the juvenile'' and 
                inserting ``because the individual'';
                    (D) by striking ``during the period the juvenile'' 
                and inserting ``during the period the individual'';
                    (E) by inserting ``such an individual who is an 
                eligible juvenile (as defined in subsection (nn)(2)) 
                and'' after ``or in the case of''; and
                    (F) by striking ``paragraph (31)'' and inserting 
                ``the last numbered paragraph''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>>  Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by--
                    (A) subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) shall take 
                effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) subparagraphs (B) through (F) of paragraph (1) 
                shall take effect on January 1, 2026.

    (b) CHIP.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2102(d)(1)(A) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397bb(d)(1)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or pregnancy-related'' after 
                ``child health'';
                    (B) by inserting ``or targeted low-income pregnant 
                woman'' after ``targeted low-income child'';
                    (C) by inserting ``or pregnant woman'' after 
                ``because the child''; and
                    (D) by inserting ``or pregnant woman'' after 
                ``during the period the child''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1397bb note.>> Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by paragraph (1) shall apply beginning January 
        1, 2026.

    (c) Technical Corrections.--
            (1) Section 1902(nn)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1395a(a)(nn)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``State plan'' 
        and inserting ``State plan (or waiver of such plan)''.
            (2) Section 1902(nn)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396a(nn)(3)), is amended by striking ``paragraph (31)'' 
        and inserting ``the last numbered paragraph''.
            (3) Section 5122(a)(1) of the Consolidated Appropriations 
        Act, 2023 (Public Law 117-328) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396d.>>  is 
        amended by striking ``after'' and all that follows through the 
        period at the end and inserting ``after `or in the case of an 
        eligible juvenile described in section 1902(a)(84)(D) with 
        respect to the screenings, diagnostic services, referrals, and 
        targeted case management services required under such 
        section'.''.
            (4) The fifth sentence of section 1905(a) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)) is amended by striking 
        ``paragraph (30)'' and inserting ``the last numbered 
        paragraph''.
SEC. 206. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>> ADDRESSING OPERATIONAL 
                        BARRIERS TO PROMOTE CONTINUITY OF CARE FOR 
                        MEDICAID AND CHIP BENEFICIARIES FOLLOWING 
                        INCARCERATION.

    (a) State Planning Grants.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--Not later than 12 
        months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall award grants to States for the purpose of developing 
        operational capabilities to promote continuity of care for 
        individuals who are inmates of a public institution and are 
        eligible for medical assistance under the State Medicaid program 
        or are eligible for child

[[Page 138 STAT. 407]]

        health assistance or pregnancy-related assistance under the 
        State CHIP.
            (2) <<NOTE: Compliance.>> Use of funds.--A State may use 
        funds awarded under a grant under this subsection for activities 
        and expenses related to complying with the requirement described 
        in section 1902(a)(84)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1396a(a)(84)(A)) that a State shall not terminate eligibility 
        for medical assistance, complying with the requirements of 
        sections 1902(a)(84)(D) and 2102(d) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(84)(D), 1397bb(d)), or adopting the State 
        plan options described in the subdivision (A) following the last 
        numbered paragraph of section 1905(a) and 2110(b)(7) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a), 1397jj(b)(7)), or other 
        activities and expenses to promote continuity of care for 
        individuals described in paragraph (1). Such activities and 
        expenses may include--
                    (A) identifying and addressing operational gaps with 
                respect to complying with such requirements or adopting 
                such options, in collaboration with public institutions, 
                State human services agencies, Medicaid managed care 
                plans, providers, community-based organizations, and 
                other stakeholders;
                    (B) establishing standardized processes and 
                automated systems for activities that may include, but 
                are not limited to--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Determinations.>> determining 
                      whether an individual is enrolled in a State 
                      Medicaid program or State CHIP at the time such 
                      individual becomes an inmate of a public 
                      institution;
                          (ii) allowing an individual who is an inmate 
                      of a public institution to submit an application 
                      to enroll or renew coverage in a State Medicaid 
                      program or State CHIP prior to the individual's 
                      release from such public institution;
                          (iii) facilitating the delivery of medical 
                      assistance under the State Medicaid program or 
                      child health assistance or pregnancy-related 
                      assistance under the State CHIP to an individual 
                      who is eligible for such assistance while the 
                      individual is an inmate of a public institution, 
                      such as by establishing claims processing and 
                      prior authorization request protocols; and
                          (iv) in the case of an eligible individual 
                      whose coverage under a State Medicaid program or 
                      State CHIP was suspended while the individual was 
                      an inmate of a public institution, restoring such 
                      coverage upon such individual's release from the 
                      public institution;
                    (C) investing in information technology to--
                          (i) enable bi-directional information sharing 
                      between public institutions, the State Medicaid 
                      and CHIP agencies, and other entities such as 
                      managed care plans and providers (in a manner 
                      consistent with applicable State and Federal 
                      privacy laws), to support care transitions and 
                      coordination of treatment (including access to 
                      care in the community after release from a public 
                      institution); and

[[Page 138 STAT. 408]]

                          (ii) develop indicators to ensure Federal 
                      financial participation for medical assistance 
                      furnished under a State Medicaid program or child 
                      health assistance or pregnancy-related assistance 
                      furnished under a State CHIP is available only for 
                      medical assistance or child health assistance or 
                      pregnancy-related assistance for items and 
                      services for which such participation is permitted 
                      while an individual is an inmate of a public 
                      institution; and
                    (D) establishing oversight and monitoring processes 
                to ensure public institutions and entities with which 
                they contract are compliant with any applicable Medicaid 
                and CHIP requirements.
            (3) Limitations on use of funds.--A State shall not use 
        funds from a grant awarded under this subsection to--
                    (A) provide medical assistance under a State 
                Medicaid program or child health assistance or 
                pregnancy-related assistance under a State CHIP to an 
                individual, or otherwise directly administer health care 
                services for an individual; or
                    (B) build prisons, jails, or other carceral 
                facilities, or pay for prison, jail, or other carceral 
                facility-related improvements other than those 
                improvements that are for the direct and primary purpose 
                of meeting the health care needs of individuals who are 
                incarcerated and who are eligible for medical assistance 
                under the State Medicaid program or child health 
                assistance or pregnancy-related assistance under the 
                State CHIP.
            (4) <<NOTE: Determinations.>> Allocation of grant funds.--In 
        determining the amount of a grant to award to a State that 
        applies for a grant under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        consider the following factors, relative to other States 
        applying for grants under this subsection:
                    (A) The number of individuals in the State who were 
                inmates of non-Federal public institutions (such as 
                State prisons, local and county jails, tribal jails, and 
                youth correctional or detention facilities) and were 
                eligible for medical assistance under a State Medicaid 
                program at any time in calendar year 2022.
                    (B) The number of non-Federal public institutions in 
                the State (such as State prisons, local and county 
                jails, tribal jails, and youth correctional or detention 
                facilities).
                    (C) The State's progress in developing, 
                implementing, and operating initiatives to promote 
                continuity of care for individuals who are inmates of a 
                public institution and are eligible for medical 
                assistance under the State Medicaid program or are 
                eligible for child health assistance or pregnancy-
                related assistance under the State CHIP (with favorable 
                consideration given to States with less progress in 
                promoting continuity of care for such individuals).
            (5) Appropriation.--There is appropriated to the Secretary 
        for fiscal year 2024, out of any funds in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $113,500,000, to remain available until 
        expended, for the purposes of awarding and administering grants 
        to States under this subsection.

    (b) Guidance to Support State Implementation and Operations.--

[[Page 138 STAT. 409]]

            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--Not later than 18 
        months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall issue detailed guidance to States that addresses common 
        implementation and operational challenges States face in 
        ensuring access to authorized high-quality, timely, accessible 
        care before, during, and after incarceration for individuals who 
        are eligible for medical assistance under a State Medicaid 
        program or child health assistance or pregnancy-related 
        assistance under a State CHIP.
            (2) Content.--
                    (A) Compliance with requirements.--The guidance 
                required under paragraph (1) shall address challenges 
                States face, or are likely to face, in complying with 
                the requirement described in section 1902(a)(84)(A) of 
                the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(84)(A)) that 
                a State shall not terminate eligibility for medical 
                assistance, complying with the requirements of sections 
                1902(a)(84)(D) and 2102(d) of the Social Security Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(84)(D), 1397bb(d)), adopting the 
                State plan options described in the subdivision (A) 
                following the last numbered paragraph of section 1905(a) 
                and section 2110(b)(7) of the Social Security Act (42 
                U.S.C. 1396d(a), 1397jj(b)(7)), and carrying out other 
                activities that are approved by the Secretary to promote 
                continuity of care for individuals who are inmates of a 
                public institution and are eligible for medical 
                assistance under the State Medicaid program or are 
                eligible for child health assistance or pregnancy-
                related assistance under the State CHIP.
                    (B) Best practices and strategies.--The guidance 
                required under paragraph (1) shall include best 
                practices and strategies States can use to address 
                implementation and operational challenges related to the 
                requirements described in subparagraph (A), including 
                those related to the following:
                          (i) Implementing modifications to improve 
                      eligibility and enrollment processes, including, 
                      but not limited to, completing applications for 
                      assistance under the State Medicaid program or the 
                      State CHIP on behalf of inmates, transmitting such 
                      applications to State Medicaid and CHIP agencies, 
                      and screening individuals who are inmates of 
                      public institutions for eligibility for medical 
                      assistance that is authorized to be furnished to 
                      the individual while the individual is such an 
                      inmate.
                          (ii) Clarifying the availability of relevant 
                      Federal financial participation, including the 
                      administrative match under sections 1903 and 2105 
                      of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b, 
                      1397ee), for activities that directly support 
                      efforts to identify and enroll eligible 
                      individuals in State Medicaid programs and State 
                      CHIPs and that directly support the provision of 
                      authorized medical assistance, child health 
                      assistance, or pregnancy-related assistance, 
                      including, but not limited to, data sharing and 
                      exchange, and other necessary functions.
                          (iii) Expeditiously conducting screening for 
                      eligibility under State Medicaid programs and 
                      State CHIPs for individuals who are inmates of a 
                      public institution,

[[Page 138 STAT. 410]]

                      providing application and renewal assistance for 
                      those who are not yet enrolled in such programs or 
                      whose eligibility needs to be renewed, and 
                      coordinating reinstatement of coverage under such 
                      programs with managed care enrollment.
                          (iv) Ensuring that an individual who is an 
                      inmate of a public institution and is eligible for 
                      medical assistance under a State Medicaid program 
                      or for child health assistance or pregnancy-
                      related assistance under a State CHIP receives, in 
                      a timely fashion, any such assistance for which 
                      Federal financial participation is authorized, 
                      such as, a supply of medications or prescription 
                      refill upon release and the services required 
                      under sections 1902(a)(84)(D) and 2102(d) of the 
                      Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(84)(D), 
                      1397bb(d)).
                          (v) Establishing community-based provider 
                      networks, including those comprised of case 
                      managers, for purposes of providing continuity of 
                      care to individuals who are eligible for medical 
                      assistance under a State Medicaid program or child 
                      health assistance or pregnancy-related assistance 
                      under a State CHIP before, during, and after 
                      incarceration.

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Public institution.--The term ``public institution'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 1902(nn)(3) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(nn)(3)).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 1101(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1301(a)(1)) for purposes of titles XIX and XXI of such Act.
            (4) State chip.--The term ``State CHIP'' means a State child 
        health plan for child health assistance under title XXI of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.), and includes any 
        waiver of such a plan.
            (5) State medicaid program.--The term ``State Medicaid 
        program'' means a State plan for medical assistance under title 
        XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), and 
        includes any waiver of such a plan.
SEC. 207. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>> GUIDANCE RELATING TO 
                        IMPROVING THE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WORKFORCE 
                        AND INTEGRATION OF CARE UNDER MEDICAID AND 
                        CHIP.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Guidance.--Not later than 24 months after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall issue 
guidance to States regarding the following:
            (1) Opportunities to increase access to the mental health 
        and substance use disorder care providers that participate in 
        Medicaid or CHIP, which may include education, training, 
        recruitment and retention of such providers, with a focus on 
        improving the capacity of this workforce in rural and 
        underserved areas by increasing the number, type, and capacity 
        of providers. The guidance relating to such opportunities shall 
        include the following:

[[Page 138 STAT. 411]]

                    (A) Best practices from States that have used 
                authorities under titles XI, XIX, or XXI of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., 1396 et seq., 
                1397aa et seq.), including initiatives States have 
                implemented under waivers under section 1115 of such Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1315), for such purposes.
                    (B) Opportunities States can leverage to finance, 
                support, and expand the availability of providers of 
                community-based mental health and substance use disorder 
                services who participate in Medicaid and CHIP across the 
                continuum of care, including through the participation 
                of paraprofessionals with behavioral health expertise, 
                such as clinicians with baccalaureate degrees and peer 
                support specialists and including best practices 
                especially pertinent to pediatric care. The guidance 
                shall include examples of innovative policies states 
                have adopted to expand access to behavioral health 
                services; for example, by establishing more expansive 
                and diverse behavioral health workforce roles such as 
                certified wellness coaches.
                    (C) Best practices related to financing, supporting, 
                and expanding the education and training of providers of 
                mental health and substance use disorder services in 
                order to increase the workforce of such providers who 
                participate in Medicaid and CHIP across the continuum of 
                care, including innovative public-private partnerships 
                and including such practices that are especially 
                pertinent to pediatric care.
            (2) <<NOTE: Strategies.>>  Opportunities to promote the 
        integration of mental health or substance use disorder services 
        with primary care services. The guidance relating to such 
        opportunities shall include the following:
                    (A) <<NOTE: Overview.>> An overview of State options 
                for adopting and expanding value-based payment 
                arrangements and alternative payment models, including 
                accountable care organization-like models and other 
                shared savings programs.
                    (B) A description of opportunities for States to use 
                and align existing authorities and resources to finance 
                the integration of mental health or substance use 
                disorder services with primary care services, including 
                with respect to the use of electronic health records in 
                mental health care settings and in substance use 
                disorder care settings.
                    (C) Strategies to support integration of mental 
                health or substance use disorder services with primary 
                care services through the use of non-clinical 
                professionals and paraprofessionals, including peer 
                support specialists.
                    (D) Examples of specific strategies and models 
                designed to support integration of mental health or 
                substance use disorder services with primary care 
                services for differing age groups, including children 
                and youth and individuals over the age of 65, which may 
                include the collaborative care model or primary care 
                behavioral health model for behavioral health 
                integration.

    (b) Integration of Mental Health or Substance Use Disorder Services 
With <<NOTE: Definition.>> Primary Care Services.--For purposes of

[[Page 138 STAT. 412]]

subsection (a)(2), the term ``integration of mental health or substance 
use disorder services with primary care services'' means any of the 
following:
            (1) The delivery of mental health or substance use disorder 
        services in a setting that is physically located in the same 
        practice or building as a primary care setting, or when at least 
        1 provider of mental health or substance use disorder services 
        is available in a primary care setting via telehealth.
            (2) The use of behavioral health integration models 
        primarily intended for pediatric populations with non-severe 
        mental health needs that are focused on prevention and early 
        detection and intervention methods through a multidisciplinary 
        collaborative behavioral health team approach co-managed with 
        primary care, to include same-day access to family-focused 
        mental health treatment services.
            (3) Having providers of mental health or substance use 
        disorder services physically co-located in a primary care 
        setting with same-day visit availability.
            (4) Implementing or maintaining enhanced care coordination 
        or targeted case management which includes regular interactions 
        between and within care teams.
            (5) Providing mental health or substance use disorder 
        screening and follow-up assessments, interventions, or services 
        within the same practice or facility as a primary care or 
        physical service setting.
            (6) The use of assertive community treatment that is 
        integrated with or facilitated by a primary care practice.
            (7) Delivery of integrated primary care and mental health 
        care or substance use disorder care in the home or in community-
        based settings for individuals who are recipients of Medicaid 
        home and community-based services.
SEC. 208. FUNDING FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATIONS.

    There is appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
for fiscal year 2024, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to remain available until expended--
            (1) $5,000,000, for the purpose of carrying out section 203 
        and the amendments made by such section, and sections 206, and 
        207; and
            (2) $10,000,000 for the recurring collection, analysis, and 
        publication of health care data under section 1948 of the Social 
        Security Act, as added by section 202.
SEC. 209. CERTIFIED COMMUNITY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CLINIC SERVICES 
                        UNDER MEDICAID.

    (a) Definition of Medical Assistance.--Section 1905 of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (30), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (31) as paragraph 
                (32); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (30) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(31) certified community behavioral health clinic 
        services, as defined in subsection (jj); and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

[[Page 138 STAT. 413]]

    ``(jj) Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `certified community behavioral 
        health services' means any of the following services when 
        furnished to an individual as a patient of a certified community 
        behavioral health clinic (as defined in paragraph (2)), in a 
        manner reflecting person-centered care and which, if not 
        available directly through a certified community behavioral 
        health clinic, may be provided or referred through formal 
        relationships with other providers:
                    ``(A) Crisis mental health services, including 24-
                hour mobile crisis teams, emergency crisis intervention 
                services, and crisis stabilization.
                    ``(B) Screening, assessment, and diagnosis, 
                including risk assessment.
                    ``(C) Patient-centered treatment planning or similar 
                processes, including risk assessment and crisis 
                planning.
                    ``(D) Outpatient mental health and substance use 
                services.
                    ``(E) Outpatient clinic primary care screening and 
                monitoring of key health indicators and health risk.
                    ``(F) Intensive case management services.
                    ``(G) Psychiatric rehabilitation services.
                    ``(H) Peer support and counselor services and family 
                supports.
                    ``(I) Intensive, community-based mental health care 
                for members of the armed forces and veterans who are 
                eligible for medical assistance, particularly such 
                members and veterans located in rural areas, provided 
                the care is consistent with minimum clinical mental 
                health guidelines promulgated by the Veterans Health 
                Administration, including clinical guidelines contained 
                in the Uniform Mental Health Services Handbook of such 
                Administration.
            ``(2) Certified community behavioral health clinic.--The 
        term `certified community behavioral health clinic' means an 
        organization that--
                    ``(A) has been certified by a State as meeting the 
                criteria established by the Secretary pursuant to 
                subsection (a) of section 223 of the Protecting Access 
                to Medicare Act as of January 1, 2024, and any 
                subsequent updates to such criteria, regardless of 
                whether the State is carrying out a demonstration 
                program under this title under subsection (d) of such 
                section;
                    ``(B) is engaged in furnishing all of the services 
                described in paragraph (1); and
                    ``(C) agrees, as a condition of the certification 
                described in subparagraph (A), to furnish to the State 
                or Secretary any data required as part of ongoing 
                monitoring of the organization's provision of services, 
                including encounter data, clinical outcomes data, 
                quality data, and such other data as the State or 
                Secretary may require.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396d note.>> Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply with respect to medical assistance 
furnished on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 138 STAT. 414]]

SEC. 210. ELIMINATING CERTAIN DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE HOSPITAL 
                        PAYMENT CUTS.

    Section 1923(f)(7)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-
4(f)(7)(A)), as amended by section 121 of subtitle B of title I of 
division B of the Further Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other 
Extensions Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-35), <<NOTE: Ante, p. 6.>>  is 
amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``For the period beginning 
        March 9, 2024, and ending September 30, 2024, and for each of 
        fiscal years 2025'' and inserting ``For the period beginning 
        January 1, 2025, and ending September 30, 2025, and for each of 
        fiscal years 2026''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``March 9, 2024, and ending 
        September 30, 2024, and for each of fiscal years 2025'' and 
        inserting ``January 1, 2025, and ending September 30, 2025, and 
        for each of fiscal years 2026''.
SEC. 211. PROMOTING VALUE IN MEDICAID MANAGED CARE.

    Section 1903(m)(9)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396b(m)(9)(A)) is amended by striking ``(and before fiscal year 
2024)''.
SEC. 212. MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1941(b)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w-
1(b)(3)(A)), as amended by section 122 of subtitle B of title I of 
division B of the Further Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other 
Extensions Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-35), <<NOTE: Ante, p. 6.>>  is 
further amended by striking ``$5,140,428,729'' and inserting ``$0''.

                          Subtitle C--Medicare

SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR QUALITY MEASURE ENDORSEMENT, 
                        INPUT, AND SELECTION.

    Section 1890(d)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395aaa(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``and $20,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$20,000,000''; and
                    (B) by inserting the following before the period at 
                the end: ``, and $9,000,000 for the period beginning on 
                October 1, 2023, and ending on December 31, 2024''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``and 2023'' and 
        inserting ``2023, and 2024 and the period beginning on October 
        1, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024''.
SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF FUNDING OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-
                        INCOME PROGRAMS.

    (a) State Health Insurance Assistance Programs.--Subsection 
(a)(1)(B) of section 119 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients and 
Providers Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 1395b-3 note), as amended by section 
3306 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-
148), section 610 of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (Public 
Law 112-240), section 1110 of the Pathway for SGR Reform Act of 2013 
(Public Law 113-67), section 110 of the Protecting Access to Medicare 
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-93), section 208 of the Medicare Access and 
CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-10), section 50207 of 
division E of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law

[[Page 138 STAT. 415]]

115-123), section 1402 of division B of the Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2020, and Health Extenders Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-59), section 
1402 of division B of the Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2020, 
and Further Health Extenders Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-69), section 
103 of division N of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 
(Public Law 116-94), section 3803 of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136), 
section 2203 of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2021 and Other 
Extensions Act (Public Law 116-159), section 1102 of the Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2021, and Other Extensions Act (Public 
Law 116-215), and section 103 of division CC of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260), is amended--
            (1) in clause (xii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (xiii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new 
        clause:
                          ``(xiv) for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, 
                      $18,750,000.''.

    (b) Area Agencies on Aging.--Subsection (b)(1)(B) of such section 
119, as so amended, is amended--
            (1) in clause (xii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (xiii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new 
        clause:
                          ``(xiv) for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, 
                      $18,750,000.''.

    (c) Aging and Disability Resource Centers.--Subsection (c)(1)(B) of 
such section 119, as so amended, is amended--
            (1) in clause (xii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (xiii), by striking the comma at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new 
        clause:
                          ``(xiv) for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, 
                      $6,250,000.''.

    (d) Coordination of Efforts to Inform Older Americans About Benefits 
Available Under Federal and State Programs.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
section 119, as so amended, is amended--
            (1) in clause (xii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (xiii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new 
        clause:
                          ``(xiv) for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2023, and ending on December 31, 2024, 
                      $18,750,000.''.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF THE WORK GEOGRAPHIC INDEX FLOOR UNDER THE 
                        MEDICARE PROGRAM.

    Section 1848(e)(1)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
4(e)(1)(E)) is amended by striking ``March 9, 2024'' and inserting 
``January 1, 2025''.
SEC. 304. EXTENDING INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FOR PARTICIPATION IN 
                        ELIGIBLE ALTERNATIVE PAYMENT MODELS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1833(z) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395l(z)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``with 2025'' and inserting ``with 
                2026''; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 416]]

                    (B) by inserting ``, or, with respect to 2026, 1.88 
                percent'' after ``3.5 percent'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B)--
                          (i) in the heading, by striking ``2025'' and 
                      inserting ``2026''; and
                          (ii) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                      striking ``2025'' and inserting ``2026'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                          (i) in the heading, by striking ``2026'' and 
                      inserting ``2027''; and
                          (ii) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                      striking ``2026'' and inserting ``2027''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and 2025'' 
                and inserting ``2025, and 2026''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ``, or, with respect 
        to 2026, 1.88 percent'' after ``3.5 percent''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1848(q)(1)(C)(iii) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4(q)(1)(C)(iii)) is amended--
            (1) in subclause (II), by striking ``2025'' and inserting 
        ``2026''; and
            (2) in subclause (III), by striking ``2026'' and inserting 
        ``2027''.
SEC. 305. TEMPORARY PAYMENT INCREASE UNDER THE MEDICARE PHYSICIAN 
                        FEE SCHEDULE TO ACCOUNT FOR EXCEPTIONAL 
                        CIRCUMSTANCES AND ATYPICAL TIMING OF 
                        ENACTMENT.

    Section 1848(t)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
4(t)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) by striking ``January 1, 2025'' and inserting 
                ``March 9, 2024''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) such services furnished on or after March 9, 
                2024, and before January 1, 2025, by 2.93 percent.''.
SEC. 306. EXTENSION OF INCREASED INPATIENT HOSPITAL PAYMENT 
                        ADJUSTMENT FOR CERTAIN LOW-VOLUME 
                        HOSPITALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1886(d)(12) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(12)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``in fiscal year 2025 and subsequent fiscal years'' 
        and inserting ``during the portion of fiscal year 2025 beginning 
        on January 1, 2025, and ending on September 30, 2025, and in 
        fiscal year 2026 and subsequent fiscal years'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C)(i)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subclause (I)--
                          (i) by inserting ``or portion of a fiscal 
                      year'' after ``for a fiscal year''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``and the portion of fiscal 
                      year 2025 beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending 
                      on December 31, 2024'' after ``through 2024'';

[[Page 138 STAT. 417]]

                    (B) in subclause (III), by inserting ``and the 
                portion of fiscal year 2025 beginning on October 1, 
                2024, and ending on December 31, 2024'' after ``through 
                2024''; and
                    (C) in subclause (IV), by striking ``fiscal year 
                2025'' and inserting ``the portion of fiscal year 2025 
                beginning on January 1, 2025, and ending on September 
                30, 2025, and fiscal year 2026''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting 
                ``or during the portion of fiscal year 2025 beginning on 
                October 1, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024'' after 
                ``through 2024''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and the portion 
                of fiscal year 2025 beginning on October 1, 2024, and 
                ending on December 31, 2024'' after ``through 2024''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1395ww note.>> Implementation.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
may implement the provisions of, including the amendments made by, this 
section by program instruction or otherwise.
SEC. 307. EXTENSION OF THE MEDICARE-DEPENDENT HOSPITAL (MDH) 
                        PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1886(d)(5)(G) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(5)(G)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``October 1, 2024'' and 
        inserting ``January 1, 2025''; and
            (2) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ``October 1, 2024'' and 
        inserting ``January 1, 2025''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Extension of target amount.--Section 1886(b)(3)(D) of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(b)(3)(D)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``October 1, 2024'' and inserting ``January 1, 2025''; 
                and
                    (B) in clause (iv), by inserting ``and the portion 
                of fiscal year 2025 beginning on October 1, 2024, and 
                ending on December 31, 2024,'' after ``through fiscal 
                year 2024''.
            (2) Permitting hospitals to decline reclassification.--
        Section 13501(e)(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
        1993 (42 U.S.C. 1395ww note) is amended by striking ``or fiscal 
        year 2000'' and all that follows through ``the Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2000 through fiscal year 2024, or the 
        portion of fiscal year 2025 beginning on October 1, 2024, and 
        ending on December 31, 2024, the Secretary''.
SEC. 308. EXTENSION OF ADJUSTMENT TO CALCULATION OF HOSPICE CAP 
                        AMOUNT UNDER MEDICARE.

    Section 1814(i)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395f(i)(2)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``2032'' and inserting 
        ``2033''; and
            (2) in clause (iii), by striking ``2032'' and inserting 
        ``2033''.
SEC. 309. MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395iii(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``$2,197,795,056'' and inserting 
``$0''.

[[Page 138 STAT. 418]]

                       Subtitle D--Human Services

SEC. 401. <<NOTE: 42 USC 601 note.>> EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY 
                        ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES PROGRAM.

    Activities authorized by part A of title IV (other than under 
section 403(c) or 418) and section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act 
shall continue through September 30, 2024, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2023, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United 
States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
SEC. 402. EXTENSION OF CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES PROGRAMS.

    Activities authorized by part B of title IV of the Social Security 
Act shall continue through December 31, 2024, in the manner authorized 
for fiscal year 2023, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United 
States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
SEC. 403. SEXUAL RISK AVOIDANCE EDUCATION EXTENSION.

    Section 510 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 710), as amended 
by section 142 of subtitle D of title I of division B of the Further 
Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024 
(Public Law 118-35), <<NOTE: Ante, p. 6.>> is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' after ``January 19, 
                      2024,'';
                          (ii) by inserting ``for the period beginning 
                      on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 
                      2024, and for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2024, and ending on December 31, 2024,'' after 
                      ``March 8, 2024,''; and
                          (iii) by inserting ``or 2025'' after ``for 
                      fiscal year 2024''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or 2025'' after 
                ``with respect to fiscal year 2024'' each place it 
                appears; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' before ``for the period 
                beginning on January 20, 2024,''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and 
                ending on September 30, 2024, an amount equal to the pro 
                rata portion of the amount appropriated for the 
                corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, and for the 
                period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on 
                December 31, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata 
                portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding 
                period for fiscal year 2024.''.
SEC. 404. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY EDUCATION EXTENSION.

    Section 513 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 713), as amended 
by section 143 of subtitle D of title I of division B of the Further 
Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 2024 
(Public Law 118-35), <<NOTE: Ante, pp. 6, 7.>>  is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i)--

[[Page 138 STAT. 419]]

                          (i) by striking ``and'' after ``January 19, 
                      2024,''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``for the period beginning 
                      on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 
                      2024, and for the period beginning on October 1, 
                      2024, and ending on December 31, 2024,'' after 
                      ``March 8, 2024,''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' after ``January 19, 
                      2024,''; and
                          (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                      inserting ``, for the period beginning on March 9, 
                      2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, and for 
                      the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and 
                      ending on December 31, 2024.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(3), by inserting ``or 2025'' after 
        ``fiscal year 2024''; and
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' before ``for the period 
                beginning on January 20, 2024,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``fiscal year 2023.'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal year 2023, for the period beginning on March 9, 
                2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, an amount equal 
                to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for 
                the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, and for 
                the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on 
                December 31, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata 
                portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding 
                period for fiscal year 2024.''.
SEC. 405. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR FAMILY-TO-FAMILY HEALTH 
                        INFORMATION CENTERS.

    Section 501(c)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
701(c)(1)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (vi), by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
            (2) in clause (vii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (vii), the following new 
        clause:
            ``(viii) $1,500,000 for the portion of fiscal year 2025 
        before January 1, 2025.''.

     TITLE II <<NOTE: Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 
2024. Territories.>> --AMENDING COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION
SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1901 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Compact of Free Association 
Amendments Act of 2024''.
SEC. 202. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1981.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The United States (in accordance with the Trusteeship 
        Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the 
        United Nations Charter, and the objectives of the international 
        trusteeship system of the United Nations) fulfilled its 
        obligations to promote the development of the people of the 
        Trust Territory toward self-government or independence, as 
        appropriate, to the particular circumstances of the Trust 
        Territory

[[Page 138 STAT. 420]]

        and the people of the Trust Territory and the freely expressed 
        wishes of the people concerned.
            (2) The United States, the Federated States of Micronesia, 
        and the Republic of the Marshall Islands entered into the 
        Compact of Free Association set forth in section 201 of the 
        Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1901 note; 
        Public Law 99-239) and the United States and the Republic of 
        Palau entered into the Compact of Free Association set forth in 
        section 201 of Public Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931 note) to create 
        and maintain a close and mutually beneficial relationship.
            (3) The ``Compact of Free Association, as amended, between 
        the Government of the United States of America and the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia'', the 
        ``Compact of Free Association, as amended, between the 
        Government of the United States of America and the Government of 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands'', and related agreements 
        were signed by the Government of the United States and the 
        Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands and approved, as applicable, by 
        section 201 of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 
        2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921 note; Public Law 108-188).
            (4) The ``Agreement between the Government of the United 
        States of America and the Government of the Republic of Palau 
        Following the Compact of Free Association Section 432 Review'', 
        was signed by the Government of the United States and the 
        Government of the Republic of Palau on September 3, 2010, and 
        amended on September 19, 2018.
            (5) On May 22, 2023, the United States signed the 
        ``Agreement between the Government of the United States of 
        America and the Government of the Republic of Palau Resulting 
        From the 2023 Compact of Free Association Section 432 Review''.
            (6) On May 23, 2023, the United States signed 3 agreements 
        related to the U.S.-FSM Compact of Free Association, including 
        an Agreement to Amend the Compact, as amended, a new fiscal 
        procedures agreement, and a new trust fund agreement and on 
        September 28, 2023, the United States signed a Federal Programs 
        and Services agreement related to the U.S.-FSM Compact of Free 
        Association.
            (7) On October 16, 2023, the United States signed 3 
        agreements relating to the U.S.-RMI Compact of Free Association, 
        including an Agreement to Amend the Compact, as amended, a new 
        fiscal procedures agreement, and a new trust fund agreement.
SEC. 203. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1982.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) 1986 compact.--The term ``1986 Compact'' means the 
        Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United 
        States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the 
        Federated States of Micronesia set forth in section 201 of the 
        Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1901 note; 
        Public Law 99-239).
            (2) 2003 amended u.s.-fsm compact.--The term ``2003 Amended 
        U.S.-FSM Compact'' means the Compact of Free Association 
        amending the 1986 Compact entitled the ``Compact of Free 
        Association, as amended, between the Government of

[[Page 138 STAT. 421]]

        the United States of America and the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia'' set forth in section 201(a) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921 note; Public Law 108-188).
            (3) 2003 amended u.s.-rmi compact.--The term ``2003 Amended 
        U.S.-RMI Compact'' means the Compact of Free Association 
        amending the 1986 Compact entitled ``Compact of Free 
        Association, as amended, between the Government of the United 
        States of America and the Government of the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands'' set forth in section 201(b) of the Compact of 
        Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921 note; 
        Public Law 108-188).
            (4) 2023 agreement to amend the u.s.-fsm compact.--The term 
        ``2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact'' means the 
        Agreement between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to 
        Amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, done at 
        Palikir May 23, 2023.
            (5) 2023 agreement to amend the u.s.-rmi compact.--The term 
        ``2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-RMI Compact'' means the 
        Agreement between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to 
        Amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, done at 
        Honolulu October 16, 2023.
            (6) 2023 amended u.s.-fsm compact.--The term ``2023 Amended 
        U.S.-FSM Compact'' means the 2003 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, as 
        amended by the 2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact.
            (7) 2023 amended u.s.-rmi compact.--The term ``2023 Amended 
        U.S.-RMI Compact'' means the 2003 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, as 
        amended by the 2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-RMI Compact.
            (8) 2023 u.s.-fsm federal programs and services agreement.--
        The term ``2023 U.S.-FSM Federal Programs and Services 
        Agreement'' means the 2023 Federal Programs and Services 
        Agreement between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, done 
        at Washington September 28, 2023.
            (9) 2023 u.s.-fsm fiscal procedures agreement.--The term 
        ``2023 U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement'' means the 
        Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United 
        States Economic Assistance provided in the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM 
        Compact between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, done 
        at Palikir May 23, 2023.
            (10) 2023 u.s.-fsm trust fund agreement.--The term ``2023 
        U.S.-FSM Trust Fund Agreement'' means the Agreement between the 
        Government of the United States of America and the Government of 
        the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding the Compact Trust 
        Fund, done at Palikir May 23, 2023.
            (11) 2023 u.s.-palau compact review agreement.--The term 
        ``2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement'' means the Agreement 
        between the Government of the United States of America and the 
        Government of the Republic of Palau Resulting From the 2023 
        Compact of Free Association Section 432 Review, done at Port 
        Moresby May 22, 2023.

[[Page 138 STAT. 422]]

            (12) 2023 u.s.-rmi fiscal procedures agreement.--The term 
        ``2023 U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement'' means the 
        Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United 
        States Economic Assistance Provided in the 2023 Amended Compact 
        Between the Government of the United States of America and the 
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, done at 
        Honolulu October 16, 2023.
            (13) 2023 u.s.-rmi trust fund agreement.--The term ``2023 
        U.S.-RMI Trust Fund Agreement'' means the Agreement between the 
        Government of the United States of America and the Government of 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding the Compact Trust 
        Fund, done at Honolulu October 16, 2023.
            (14) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
                the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (15) Freely associated states.--The term ``Freely Associated 
        States'' means--
                    (A) the Federated States of Micronesia;
                    (B) the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
                    (C) the Republic of Palau.
            (16) Subsidiary agreement.--The term ``subsidiary 
        agreement'' means any of the following:
                    (A) The 2023 U.S.-FSM Federal Programs and Services 
                Agreement.
                    (B) The 2023 U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
                    (C) The 2023 U.S.-FSM Trust Fund Agreement.
                    (D) The 2023 U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
                    (E) The 2023 U.S.-RMI Trust Fund Agreement.
                    (F) Any Federal Programs and Services Agreement in 
                force between the United States and the Republic of the 
                Marshall Islands.
                    (G) Any Federal Programs and Services Agreement in 
                force between the United States and the Republic of 
                Palau.
                    (H) Any other agreement that the United States may 
                from time-to-time enter into with the Government of the 
                Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the 
                Republic of Palau, or the Government of the Republic of 
                the Marshall Islands, in accordance with--
                          (i) the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (ii) the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
                      Agreement; or
                          (iii) the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact.
            (17) U.S.-palau compact.--The term ``U.S.-Palau Compact'' 
        means the Compact of Free Association between the United States 
        and the Government of Palau set forth in section 201 of Public 
        Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931 note).

[[Page 138 STAT. 423]]

SEC. 204. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1983.>> APPROVAL OF 2023 AGREEMENT TO 
                        AMEND THE U.S.-FSM COMPACT, 2023 AGREEMENT 
                        TO AMEND THE U.S.-RMI COMPACT, 2023 U.S.-
                        PALAU COMPACT REVIEW AGREEMENT, AND 
                        SUBSIDIARY AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Federated States of Micronesia.--
            (1) <<NOTE: 48 USC 1921 note.>>  Approval.--The 2023 
        Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact and the 2023 U.S.-FSM 
        Trust Fund Agreement, as submitted to Congress on June 15, 2023, 
        are approved and incorporated by reference.
            (2) Consent of congress.--Congress consents to--
                    (A) the 2023 U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement, 
                as submitted to Congress on June 15, 2023; and
                    (B) the 2023 U.S.-FSM Federal Programs and Services 
                Agreement.
            (3) Authority of president.--Notwithstanding section 101(f) 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921(f)), the President is authorized to bring into force 
        and implement the agreements described in paragraphs (1) and 
        (2).

    (b) Republic of the Marshall Islands.--
            (1) <<NOTE: 48 USC 1921 note.>> Approval.--The 2023 
        Agreement to Amend the U.S.-RMI Compact and the 2023 U.S.-RMI 
        Trust Fund Agreement, as submitted to Congress on October 17, 
        2023, are approved and incorporated by reference.
            (2) Consent of congress.--Congress consents to the 2023 
        U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement, as submitted to Congress 
        on October 17, 2023.
            (3) Authority of president.--Notwithstanding section 101(f) 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921(f)), the President is authorized to bring into force 
        and implement the agreements described in paragraphs (1) and 
        (2).

    (c) Republic of Palau.--
            (1) Approval.--The 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, 
        as submitted to Congress on June 15, 2023, is approved.
            (2) Authority of president.--The President is authorized to 
        bring into force and implement the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact 
        Review Agreement.

    (d) Amendments, Changes, or Termination to Compacts and Certain 
Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--Any amendment to, change to, or termination 
        of all or any part of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 2023 
        Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or the U.S.-Palau Compact, by mutual 
        agreement or unilateral action of the Government of the United 
        States, shall not enter into force until the date on which 
        Congress has incorporated the applicable amendment, change, or 
        termination into an Act of Congress.
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Additional actions and 
        agreements.--In addition to the Compacts described in paragraph 
        (1), the requirements of that paragraph shall apply to--
                    (A) any action of the Government of the United 
                States under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 2023 
                Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or U.S.-Palau Compact, 
                including an action taken pursuant to section 431, 441, 
                or 442 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 2023 
                Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or U.S.-Palau Compact; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 424]]

                    (B) any amendment to, change to, or termination of--
                          (i) the agreement described in section 
                      462(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (ii) the agreement described in section 
                      462(a)(5) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
                          (iii) an agreement concluded pursuant to 
                      section 265 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (iv) an agreement concluded pursuant to 
                      section 265 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
                          (v) an agreement concluded pursuant to section 
                      177 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
                          (vi) Articles III and IV of the agreement 
                      described in section 462(b)(6) of the 2023 Amended 
                      U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (vii) Articles III, IV, and X of the agreement 
                      described in section 462(b)(6) of the 2023 Amended 
                      U.S.-RMI Compact;
                          (viii) the agreement described in section 
                      462(h) of the U.S.-Palau Compact; and
                          (ix) Articles VI, XV, and XVII of the 
                      agreement described in section 462(b)(7) of the 
                      2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact and 2023 Amended 
                      U.S.-RMI Compact and section 462(i) of the U.S.-
                      Palau Compact.

    (e) Entry Into Force of Future Amendments to Subsidiary 
Agreements.-- <<NOTE: Effective date. President.>> An agreement between 
the United States and the Government of the Federated States of 
Micronesia, the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or 
the Government of the Republic of Palau that would amend, change, or 
terminate any subsidiary agreement or portion of a subsidiary agreement 
(other than an amendment to, change to, or termination of an agreement 
described in subsection (d)) shall not enter into force until the date 
that is 90 days after the date on which the President has transmitted to 
the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives--
            (1) the agreement to amend, change, or terminate the 
        subsidiary agreement;
            (2) an explanation of the amendment, change, or termination;
            (3) a description of the reasons for the amendment, change, 
        or termination; and
            (4) <<NOTE: Statement.>> in the case of an agreement that 
        would amend, change, or terminate any agreement described in 
        section 462(b)(3) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact or the 
        2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, a statement by the Secretary of 
        Labor that describes--
                    (A) the necessity of the amendment, change, or 
                termination; and
                    (B) any impacts of the amendment, change, or 
                termination.
SEC. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1984.>> 205. AGREEMENTS WITH FEDERATED STATES 
                        OF MICRONESIA.

    (a) Law Enforcement Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to sections 222 and 224 of the 
        2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, the United States shall provide 
        nonreimbursable technical and training assistance, as

[[Page 138 STAT. 425]]

        appropriate, including training and equipment for postal 
        inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to enable the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia--
                    (A) to develop and adequately enforce laws of the 
                Federated States of Micronesia; and
                    (B) to cooperate with the United States in the 
                enforcement of criminal laws of the United States.
            (2) Use of appropriated funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant 
        to subsection (j) of section 105 of the Compact of Free 
        Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d) (as amended 
        by section 209(j)) may be used in accordance with section 102(a) 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921a(a)).

    (b) United States Appointees to Joint Economic Management 
Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The 3 United States appointees (which are 
        composed of the United States chair and 2 other members from the 
        Government of the United States) to the Joint Economic 
        Management Committee established under section 213 of the 2023 
        Amended U.S.-FSM Compact (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Committee'') shall--
                    (A) be voting members of the Committee; and
                    (B) continue to be officers or employees of the 
                Federal Government.
            (2) Term; appointment.--The 3 United States members of the 
        Committee described in paragraph (1) shall be appointed for a 
        term of 2 years as follows:
                    (A) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                State, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury.
                    (B) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury.
                    (C) 1 member shall be appointed by the Interagency 
                Group on Freely Associated States established under 
                section 208(d)(1).
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Reappointment.--A United States 
        member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (2) may be 
        reappointed for not more than 2 additional 2-year terms.
            (4) Qualifications.--Not fewer than 2 United States members 
        of the Committee appointed under paragraph (2) shall be 
        individuals who--
                    (A) by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, 
                are especially qualified in accounting, auditing, budget 
                analysis, compliance, grant administration, program 
                management, or international economics; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>> possess not less than 5 
                years of full-time experience in accounting, auditing, 
                budget analysis, compliance, grant administration, 
                program management, or international economics.
            (5) Notice.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline. Statement. Attestation.>> In 
                general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
                appointment of a United States member of the Committee 
                under paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
                notify the appropriate committees of Congress that an 
                individual has been appointed as a voting member of the 
                Committee under that paragraph, including a statement 
                prepared by the Secretary of the Interior attesting

[[Page 138 STAT. 426]]

                to the qualifications of the member described in 
                paragraph (4), subject to subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Requirement.--For purposes of a statement 
                required under subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the Secretary 
                      of State on request of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior; and
                          (ii) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(C), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the 
                      Interagency Group on Freely Associated States 
                      established under section 208(d)(1) on request of 
                      the Secretary of the Interior.
            (6) Reports to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Committee receives or completes any report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.
            (7) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Notice to congress.--Not later than 
        90 days after the date on which the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia submits to the Committee a report required 
        under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        to the appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Attestation.>>  if the report is 
                submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice 
                attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or
                    (B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable 
                deadline, written notice that the report has not been 
                timely submitted.

    (c) United States Appointees to Joint Trust Fund Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The 3 United States voting members (which 
        are composed of the United States chair and 2 other members from 
        the Government of the United States) to the Joint Trust Fund 
        Committee established pursuant to the agreement described in 
        section 462(b)(5) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact (referred 
        to in this subsection as the ``Committee'') shall continue to be 
        officers or employees of the Federal Government.
            (2) Term; appointment.--The 3 United States members of the 
        Committee described in paragraph (1) shall be appointed for a 
        term not more than 2 years as follows:
                    (A) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                State.
                    (B) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Interior.
                    (C) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Treasury.
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Reappointment.--A United States 
        member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (2) may be 
        reappointed for not more than 2 additional 2-year terms.

[[Page 138 STAT. 427]]

            (4) Qualifications.--Not fewer than 2 members of the 
        Committee appointed under paragraph (2) shall be individuals 
        who--
                    (A) by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, 
                are especially qualified in accounting, auditing, budget 
                analysis, compliance, financial investment, grant 
                administration, program management, or international 
                economics; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  possess not less than 5 
                years of full-time experience in accounting, auditing, 
                budget analysis, compliance, financial investment, grant 
                administration, program management, or international 
                economics.
            (5) Notice.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline. Statement. Attestation.>>  In 
                general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
                appointment of a United States member to the Committee 
                under paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
                notify the appropriate committees of Congress that an 
                individual has been appointed as a voting member of the 
                Committee under that paragraph, including a statement 
                attesting to the qualifications of the member described 
                in paragraph (4), subject to subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Requirement.--For purposes of a statement 
                required under subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the Secretary 
                      of State on request of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior; and
                          (ii) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(C), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the Secretary 
                      of the Treasury on request of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior.
            (6) Reports to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Committee receives or completes any report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.
            (7) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notice to congress.--Not later than 
        90 days after the date on which the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia submits to the Committee a report required 
        under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        to the appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Attestation.>>  if the report is 
                submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice 
                attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or
                    (B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable 
                deadline, written notice that the report has not been 
                timely submitted.
SEC. 206. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1985.>>  AGREEMENTS WITH AND OTHER 
                        PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE 
                        MARSHALL ISLANDS.

    (a) Law Enforcement Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to sections 222 and 224 of the 
        2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, the United States shall

[[Page 138 STAT. 428]]

        provide nonreimbursable technical and training assistance, as 
        appropriate, including training and equipment for postal 
        inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to enable the 
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands--
                    (A) to develop and adequately enforce laws of the 
                Marshall Islands; and
                    (B) to cooperate with the United States in the 
                enforcement of criminal laws of the United States.
            (2) Use of appropriated funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant 
        to subsection (j) of section 105 of the Compact of Free 
        Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d) (as amended 
        by section 209(j)) may be used in accordance with section 103(a) 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921b(a)).

    (b) Espousal Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--Congress reaffirms that--
                    (A) section 103(g)(1) of the Compact of Free 
                Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(g)(1)) and 
                section 103(e)(1) of the Compact of Free Association 
                Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(e)(1)) provided 
                that ``It is the intention of the Congress of the United 
                States that the provisions of section 177 of the Compact 
                of Free Association and the Agreement between the 
                Government of the United States and the Government of 
                the Marshall Islands for the Implementation of Section 
                177 of the Compact (hereafter in this subsection 
                referred to as the `Section 177 Agreement') constitute a 
                full and final settlement of all claims described in 
                Articles X and XI of the Section 177 Agreement, and that 
                any such claims be terminated and barred except insofar 
                as provided for in the Section 177 Agreement.''; and
                    (B) section 103(g)(2) of the Compact of Free 
                Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(g)(2)) and 
                section 103(e)(2) of the Compact of Free Association 
                Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(e)(2)) provided 
                that ``In furtherance of the intention of Congress as 
                stated in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Section 
                177 Agreement is hereby ratified and approved. It is the 
                explicit understanding and intent of Congress that the 
                jurisdictional limitations set forth in Article XII of 
                such Agreement are enacted solely and exclusively to 
                accomplish the objective of Article X of such Agreement 
                and only as a clarification of the effect of Article X, 
                and are not to be construed or implemented separately 
                from Article X.''.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in the 2023 Agreement to Amend the 
        U.S.-RMI Compact affects the application of the provisions of 
        law reaffirmed by paragraph (1).

    (c) Certain Section 177 Agreement Provisions.--Congress reaffirms 
that--
            (1) Article IX of the Agreement Between the Government of 
        the United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands for 
        the Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact of Free 
        Association, done at Majuro June 25, 1983, provided that ``If 
        loss or damage to property and person of the citizens of the 
        Marshall Islands, resulting from the Nuclear Testing Program, 
        arises or is discovered after the effective date of this 
        Agreement, and such injuries were not and could not

[[Page 138 STAT. 429]]

        reasonably have been identified as of the effective date of this 
        Agreement, and if such injuries render the provisions of this 
        Agreement manifestly inadequate, the Government of the Marshall 
        Islands may request that the Government of the United States 
        provide for such injuries by submitting such a request to the 
        Congress of the United States for its consideration. It is 
        understood that this Article does not commit the Congress of the 
        United States to authorize and appropriate funds.''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Consultation.>> section 3(a) of Article XIII of 
        the agreement described in paragraph (1) provided that ``The 
        Government of the United States and the Government of the 
        Marshall Islands shall consult at the request of either of them 
        on matters relating to the provisions of this Agreement.''.

    (d) United States Appointees to Joint Economic Management and 
Financial Accountability Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The 2 United States appointees (which are 
        composed of the United States chair and 1 other member from the 
        Government of the United States) to the Joint Economic 
        Management and Financial Accountability Committee established 
        under section 214 of the 2003 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact (referred 
        to in this subsection as the ``Committee'') shall--
                    (A) be voting members of the Committee; and
                    (B) continue to be officers or employees of the 
                Federal Government.
            (2) Term; appointment.--The 2 United States members of the 
        Committee described in paragraph (1) shall be appointed for a 
        term of 2 years as follows:
                    (A) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                State, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury.
                    (B) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury.
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Reappointment.--A United States 
        member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (2) may be 
        reappointed for not more than 2 additional 2-year terms.
            (4) Qualifications.--At least 1 United States member of the 
        Committee appointed under paragraph (2) shall be an individual 
        who--
                    (A) by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, 
                is especially qualified in accounting, auditing, budget 
                analysis, compliance, grant administration, program 
                management, or international economics; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>> possesses not less than 5 
                years of full-time experience in accounting, auditing, 
                budget analysis, compliance, grant administration, 
                program management, or international economics.
            (5) Notice.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline. Statement. Attestation.>> In 
                general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
                appointment of a United States member under paragraph 
                (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall notify the 
                appropriate committees of Congress that an individual 
                has been appointed as a voting member of the Committee 
                under that paragraph, including a statement attesting to 
                the qualifications of the member described in paragraph 
                (4), subject to subparagraph (B).

[[Page 138 STAT. 430]]

                    (B) Requirement.--For purposes of a statement 
                required under subparagraph (A), in the case of a member 
                appointed under paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary of the 
                Interior shall compile information on the member 
                provided to the Secretary of the Interior by the 
                Secretary of State on request of the Secretary of the 
                Interior.
            (6) Reports to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Committee receives or completes any report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.
            (7) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notice to congress.--Not later than 
        90 days after the date on which the Government of the Republic 
        of the Marshall Islands submits to the Committee a report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        to the appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Attestation.>>  if the report is 
                submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice 
                attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or
                    (B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable 
                deadline, written notice that the report has not been 
                timely submitted.

    (e) United States Appointees to Trust Fund Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The 3 United States voting members (which 
        are composed of the United States chair and 2 other members from 
        the Government of the United States) to the Trust Fund Committee 
        established pursuant to the agreement described in section 
        462(b)(5) of the 2003 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact (referred to in 
        this subsection as the ``Committee'') shall continue to be 
        officers or employees of the Federal Government.
            (2) Term; appointment.--The 3 United States members of the 
        Committee described in paragraph (1) shall be appointed for a 
        term not more than 5 years as follows:
                    (A) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                State.
                    (B) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Interior.
                    (C) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
                the Treasury.
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Reappointment.--A United States 
        member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (2) may be 
        reappointed for not more than 2 additional 2-year terms.
            (4) Qualifications.--Not fewer than 2 members of the 
        Committee appointed under paragraph (2) shall be individuals 
        who--
                    (A) by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, 
                are especially qualified in accounting, auditing, budget 
                analysis, compliance, financial investment, grant 
                administration, program management, or international 
                economics; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  possess not less than 5 
                years of full-time experience in accounting, auditing, 
                budget analysis, compliance, financial investment, grant 
                administration, program management, or international 
                economics.

[[Page 138 STAT. 431]]

            (5) Notice.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline. Statement. Attestation.>> In 
                general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
                appointment of a United States Member under paragraph 
                (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall notify the 
                appropriate committees of Congress that an individual 
                has been appointed as a voting member of the Committee 
                under that paragraph, including a statement attesting to 
                the qualifications of the appointee described in 
                paragraph (4), subject to subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Requirement.--For purposes of a statement 
                required under subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the Secretary 
                      of State on request of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior; and
                          (ii) in the case of a member appointed under 
                      paragraph (2)(C), the Secretary of the Interior 
                      shall compile information on the member provided 
                      to the Secretary of the Interior by the Secretary 
                      of the Treasury on request of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior.
            (6) Reports to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Committee receives or completes any report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        the report to the appropriate committees of Congress.
            (7) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notice to congress.--Not later than 
        90 days after the date on which the Government of the Republic 
        of the Marshall Islands submits to the Committee a report 
        required under the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or any related 
        subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit 
        to the appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Attestation.>> if the report is 
                submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice 
                attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or
                    (B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable 
                deadline, written notice that the report has not been 
                timely submitted.

    (f) Four Atoll Health Care Program.--Congress reaffirms that--
            (1) section 103(j)(1) of the Compact of Free Association Act 
        of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(j)(1)) and section 103(h)(1) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921b(h)(1)) provided that services ``provided by the United 
        States Public Health Service or any other United States agency 
        pursuant to section 1(a) of Article II of the Agreement for the 
        Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact (hereafter in this 
        subsection referred to as the `Section 177 Agreement') shall be 
        only for services to the people of the Atolls of Bikini, 
        Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik who were affected by the 
        consequences of the United States nuclear testing program, 
        pursuant to the program described in Public Law 95-134 and 
        Public Law 96-205 and their descendants (and any other persons 
        identified as having been so affected if such identification 
        occurs in the manner described in such public laws). Nothing in 
        this subsection shall be construed as prejudicial to the views 
        or

[[Page 138 STAT. 432]]

        policies of the Government of the Marshall Islands as to the 
        persons affected by the consequences of the United States 
        nuclear testing program.'';
            (2) section 103(j)(2) of the Compact of Free Association Act 
        of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(j)(2)) and section 103(h)(2) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921b(h)(2)) provided that ``at the end of the first year after 
        the effective date of the Compact and at the end of each year 
        thereafter, the providing agency or agencies shall return to the 
        Government of the Marshall Islands any unexpended funds to be 
        returned to the Fund Manager (as described in Article I of the 
        Section 177 Agreement) to be covered into the Fund to be 
        available for future use.''; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  section 103(j)(3) of the Compact 
        of Free Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(j)(3)) and 
        section 103(h)(3) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
        Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(h)(3)) provided that ``the Fund 
        Manager shall retain the funds returned by the Government of the 
        Marshall Islands pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, 
        shall invest and manage such funds, and at the end of 15 years 
        after the effective date of the Compact, shall make from the 
        total amount so retained and the proceeds thereof annual 
        disbursements sufficient to continue to make payments for the 
        provision of health services as specified in paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection to such extent as may be provided in contracts 
        between the Government of the Marshall Islands and appropriate 
        United States providers of such health services.''.

    (g) <<NOTE: President.>>  Radiological Health Care Program.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on the request of the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the President 
(through an appropriate department or agency of the United States) shall 
continue to provide special medical care and logistical support for the 
remaining members of the population of Rongelap and Utrik who were 
exposed to radiation resulting from the 1954 United States thermonuclear 
``Bravo'' test, pursuant to Public Law 95-134 (91 Stat. 1159) and Public 
Law 96-205 (94 Stat. 84).

    (h) <<NOTE: Grants.>> Agricultural and Food Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Congress reaffirms that--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Time 
                period. President. Contracts.>> section 103(h)(2) of the 
                Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 
                1903(h)(2)) and section 103(f)(2)(A) of the Compact of 
                Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
                1921b(f)(2)(A)) provided that notwithstanding ``any 
                other provision of law, upon the request of the 
                Government of the Marshall Islands, for the first 
                fifteen years after the effective date of the Compact, 
                the President (either through an appropriate department 
                or agency of the United States or by contract with a 
                United States firm or by a grant to the Government of 
                the Republic of the Marshall Islands which may further 
                contract only with a United States firm or a Republic of 
                the Marshall Islands firm, the owners, officers and 
                majority of the employees of which are citizens of the 
                United States or the Republic of the Marshall Islands) 
                shall provide technical and other assistance without 
                reimbursement, to continue the planting and agricultural 
                maintenance program on Enewetak; without reimbursement, 
                to continue the food programs of the Bikini, Rongelap, 
                Utrik, and Enewetak

[[Page 138 STAT. 433]]

                people described in section 1(d) of Article II of the 
                Subsidiary Agreement for the Implementation of Section 
                177 of the Compact and for continued waterborne 
                transportation of agricultural products to Enewetak 
                including operations and maintenance of the vessel used 
                for such purposes.'';
                    (B) section 103(h)(2) of the Compact of Free 
                Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(h)(2)) and 
                section 103(f)(2)(B) of the Compact of Free Association 
                Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(f)(2)(B)) 
                provided that ``The President shall ensure the 
                assistance provided under these programs reflects the 
                changes in the population since the inception of such 
                programs.''; and
                    (C) section 103(h)(3) of the Compact of Free 
                Association Act of 1985 (48 U.S.C. 1903(h)(3)) and 
                section 103(f)(3) of the Compact of Free Association 
                Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(f)(3)) provided 
                that ``payments under this subsection shall be provided 
                to such extent or in such amounts as are necessary for 
                services and other assistance provided pursuant to this 
                subsection. It is the sense of Congress that after the 
                periods of time specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
                this subsection, consideration will be given to such 
                additional funding for these programs as may be 
                necessary.''.
            (2) Planting and agricultural maintenance program.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior may provide grants to the Government 
        of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to carry out a planting 
        and agricultural maintenance program on Bikini, Enewetak, 
        Rongelap, and Utrik.
            (3) Food programs.--The Secretary of Agriculture may 
        provide, without reimbursement, food programs to the people of 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
SEC. 207. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1986.>> AGREEMENTS WITH AND OTHER 
                        PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE REPUBLIC OF 
                        PALAU.

    (a) Bilateral Economic Consultations.--United States participation 
in the annual economic consultations referred to in Article 8 of the 
2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement shall be by officers or 
employees of the Federal Government.
    (b) Economic Advisory Group.--
            (1) Qualifications.--A member of the Economic Advisory Group 
        described in Article 7 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement (referred to in this subsection as the ``Advisory 
        Group'') who is appointed by the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        be an individual who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or 
        training, is especially qualified in private sector business 
        development, economic development, or national development.
            (2) Funds.--With respect to the Advisory Group, the 
        Secretary of the Interior may use available funds for--
                    (A) the costs of the 2 members of the Advisory Group 
                designated by the United States in accordance with 
                Article 7 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
                Agreement;
                    (B) 50 percent of the costs of the 5th member of the 
                Advisory Group designated by the Secretary of the 
                Interior in accordance with the Article described in 
                subparagraph (A); and

[[Page 138 STAT. 434]]

                    (C) the costs of--
                          (i) technical and administrative assistance 
                      for the Advisory Group; and
                          (ii) other support necessary for the Advisory 
                      Group to accomplish the purpose of the Advisory 
                      Group.
            (3) Reports to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Advisory Group receives or completes any 
        report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of 
        the Interior shall submit the report to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress.

    (c) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the Government of the Republic of Palau completes any 
        report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of 
        the Interior shall submit the report to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress.
            (2) Notice to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date on which the Government of the Republic of Palau submits a 
        report required under the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement, or any related subsidiary agreement, the Secretary of 
        the Interior shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Attestation.>> if the report is 
                submitted by the applicable deadline, written notice 
                attesting that the report is complete and accurate; or
                    (B) if the report is not submitted by the applicable 
                deadline, written notice that the report has not been 
                timely submitted.
SEC. 208. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1987.>> OVERSIGHT PROVISIONS.

    (a) Authorities and Duties of the Comptroller General of the United 
States.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States (including any duly authorized representative of the 
        Comptroller General of the United States) shall have the 
        authorities necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the 
        Comptroller General of the United States under--
                    (A) the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact and related 
                subsidiary agreements, including the authorities and 
                privileges described in section 102(b) of the Compact of 
                Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
                1921a(b));
                    (B) the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact and related 
                subsidiary agreements, including the authorities and 
                privileges described in section 103(k) of the Compact of 
                Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
                1921b(k)); and
                    (C) the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, 
                related subsidiary agreements, and the authorities 
                described in appendix D of the ``Agreement between the 
                Government of the United States of America and the 
                Government of the Republic of Palau Following the 
                Compact of Free Association Section 432 Review'' signed 
                by the United States and the Republic of Palau on 
                September 3, 2010.

[[Page 138 STAT. 435]]

            (2) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Reports.--Not later than 18 
        months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 4 
        years thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        with respect to the Freely Associated States, including 
        addressing--
                    (A) the topics described in subparagraphs (A) 
                through (E) of section 104(h)(1) of the Compact of Free 
                Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
                1921c(h)(1)), except that for purposes of a report 
                submitted under this paragraph, the report shall address 
                those topics with respect to each of the Freely 
                Associated States; and
                    (B) the effectiveness of administrative oversight by 
                the United States of the Freely Associated States.

    (b) Secretary of the Interior Oversight Authority.--The Secretary of 
the Interior shall have the authority necessary to fulfill the 
responsibilities for monitoring and managing the funds appropriated to 
the Compact of Free Association account of the Department of the 
Interior by section 211(a) to carry out--
            (1) the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
            (2) the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
            (3) the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement; and
            (4) subsidiary agreements.

    (c) Postmaster General Oversight Authority.--The Postmaster General 
shall have the authority necessary to fulfill the responsibilities for 
monitoring and managing the funds appropriated to the United States 
Postal Service under paragraph (1) of section 211(b) and deposited in 
the Postal Service Fund under paragraph (2)(A) of that section to carry 
out--
            (1) section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
            (2) section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
            (3) section 221(a)(2) of the U.S.-Palau Compact; and
            (4) Article 6(a) of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
        Agreement.

    (d) Interagency Group on Freely Associated States.--
            (1) <<NOTE: President.>> Establishment.--The President, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
        Interior, and the Secretary of Defense, shall establish an 
        Interagency Group on Freely Associated States (referred to in 
        this subsection as the ``Interagency Group'').
            (2) Purpose.--The purposes of the Interagency Group are--
                    (A) to coordinate development and implementation of 
                executive branch policies, programs, services, and other 
                activities in or relating to the Freely Associated 
                States; and
                    (B) to provide policy guidance, recommendations, and 
                oversight to Federal agencies, departments, and 
                instrumentalities with respect to the implementation 
                of--
                          (i) the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (ii) the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact; and
                          (iii) the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
                      Agreement.
            (3) Membership.--The Interagency Group shall consist of--
                    (A) the Secretary of State, who shall serve as co-
                chair of the Interagency Group;

[[Page 138 STAT. 436]]

                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, who shall serve 
                as co-chair of the Interagency Group;
                    (C) the Secretary of Defense;
                    (D) the Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (E) the heads of relevant Federal agencies, 
                departments, and instrumentalities carrying out 
                obligations under--
                          (i) sections 131 and 132 of the 2003 Amended 
                      U.S.-FSM Compact and subsections (a) and (b) of 
                      section 221 and section 261 of the 2023 Amended 
                      U.S.-FSM Compact;
                          (ii) sections 131 and 132 of the 2003 Amended 
                      U.S.-RMI Compact and subsections (a) and (b) of 
                      section 221 and section 261 of the 2023 Amended 
                      U.S.-RMI Compact;
                          (iii) sections 131 and 132 and subsections (a) 
                      and (b) of section 221 of the U.S.-Palau Compact;
                          (iv) Article 6 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact 
                      Review Agreement;
                          (v) any applicable subsidiary agreement; and
                          (vi) section 209; and
                    (F) the head of any other Federal agency, 
                department, or instrumentality that the Secretary of 
                State or the Secretary of the Interior may designate.
            (4) Duties of secretary of state and secretary of the 
        interior.--The Secretary of State (or a senior official designee 
        of the Secretary of State) and the Secretary of the Interior (or 
        a senior official designee of the Secretary of the Interior) 
        shall--
                    (A) co-lead and preside at a meeting of the 
                Interagency Group not less frequently than annually;
                    (B) determine, in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Defense, the agenda for meetings of the Interagency 
                Group; and
                    (C) facilitate and coordinate the work of the 
                Interagency Group.
            (5) Duties of the interagency group.--The Interagency Group 
        shall--
                    (A) provide advice on the establishment or 
                implementation of policies relating to the Freely 
                Associated States to the President, acting through the 
                Office of Intergovernmental Affairs, in the form of a 
                written report not less frequently than annually;
                    (B) obtain information and advice relating to the 
                Freely Associated States from the Presidents, other 
                elected officials, and members of civil society of the 
                Freely Associated States, including through the members 
                of the Interagency Group (including senior official 
                designees of the members) meeting not less frequently 
                than annually with any Presidents of the Freely 
                Associated States who elect to participate;
                    (C) at the request of the head of any Federal agency 
                (or a senior official designee of the head of a Federal 
                agency) who is a member of the Interagency Group, 
                promptly review and provide advice on a policy or policy 
                implementation action affecting 1 or more of the Freely

[[Page 138 STAT. 437]]

                Associated States proposed by the Federal agency, 
                department, or instrumentality; and
                    (D) facilitate coordination of relevant policies, 
                programs, initiatives, and activities involving 1 or 
                more of the Freely Associated States, including ensuring 
                coherence and avoiding duplication between programs, 
                initiatives, and activities conducted pursuant to a 
                Compact with a Freely Associated State and non-Compact 
                programs, initiatives, and activities.
            (6) <<NOTE: President.>> Reports.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act and each year 
        thereafter in which a Compact of Free Association with a Freely 
        Associated State is in effect, the President shall submit to the 
        majority leader and minority leader of the Senate, the Speaker 
        and minority leader of the House of Representatives, and the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report that describes the 
        activities and recommendations of the Interagency Group during 
        the applicable year.

    (e) Federal Agency Coordination.--The head of any Federal agency 
providing programs and services to the Federated States of Micronesia, 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau shall 
coordinate with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of State 
regarding the provision of the programs and services.
    (f) Foreign Loans or Debt.--Congress reaffirms that--
            (1) the foreign loans or debt of the Government of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the Republic 
        of the Marshall Islands, or the Government of the Republic of 
        Palau shall not constitute an obligation of the United States; 
        and
            (2) the full faith and credit of the United States 
        Government shall not be pledged for the payment and performance 
        of any foreign loan or debt referred to in paragraph (1) without 
        specific further authorization.

    (g) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Compact Compilation.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress that 
includes a compilation of the Compact of Free Association with the 
Federated State of Micronesia, the Compact of Free Association with the 
Republic of Palau, and the Compact of Free Association with Republic of 
the Marshall Islands.

    (h) Publication; Revision by Office of the Law Revision Counsel.--
            * (1) Publication.--In publishing this title in slip form 
        and in the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to section 
        112 of title 1, United States Code, the Archivist of the United 
        States shall include after the date of approval at the end an 
        appendix setting forth the text of--
                    (A) the 2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM 
                Compact; and
                    (B) the 2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-RMI 
                Compact.
            (2) Revision by office of the law revision counsel.--The 
        Office of the Law Revision Counsel is directed to revise--
                    (A) the 2003 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact set forth in 
                the note following section 1921 of title 48, United 
                States Code, to reflect the amendments to the 2003 
                Amended

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *See ENDNOTE on 138 Stat. 452.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 438]]

                U.S.-FSM Compact made by the 2023 Agreement to Amend the 
                U.S.-FSM Compact; and
                    (B) the 2003 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact set forth in 
                the note following section 1921 of title 48, United 
                States Code, to reflect the amendments to the 2003 
                Amended U.S.-RMI Compact made by the 2023 Agreement to 
                Amend the U.S.-RMI Compact.
SEC. 209. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1988.>> UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING 
                        THE FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES.

    (a) Authorization for Veterans' Services.--
            (1) Definition of freely associated states.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``Freely Associated States'' means--
                    (A) the Federated States of Micronesia, during such 
                time as it is a party to the Compact of Free Association 
                set forth in section 201 of the Compact of Free 
                Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 48 U.S.C. 
                1901 note);
                    (B) the Republic of the Marshall Islands, during 
                such time as it is a party to the Compact of Free 
                Association set forth in section 201 of the Compact of 
                Free Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 48 
                U.S.C. 1901 note); and
                    (C) the Republic of Palau, during such time as it is 
                a party to the Compact of Free Association between the 
                United States and the Government of Palau set forth in 
                section 201 of Joint Resolution entitled ``Joint 
                Resolution to approve the `Compact of Free Association' 
                between the United States and the Government of Palau, 
                and for other purposes'' (Public Law 99-658; 48 U.S.C. 
                1931 note).
            (2) Hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care 
        abroad.--Section 1724 of title 38, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsections (b) 
                and (c)'' and inserting ``subsections (b), (c), and 
                (f)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(f)(1)(A) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> The Secretary may furnish hospital 
care and medical services in the Freely Associated States, subject to 
agreements the Secretary shall enter into with the governments of the 
Freely Associated States as described in section 209(a)(4)(A) of the 
Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2024, and subject to 
subparagraph (B), to a veteran who is otherwise eligible to receive 
hospital care and medical services.

    ``(B) The agreements described in subparagraph (A) shall 
incorporate, to the extent practicable, the applicable laws of the 
Freely Associated States and define the care and services that can be 
legally provided by the Secretary in the Freely Associated States.
    ``(2) In furnishing hospital care and medical services under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary may furnish hospital care and medical 
services through--
            ``(A) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  contracts or other agreements;
            ``(B) <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> reimbursement; or
            ``(C) the direct provision of care by health care personnel 
        of the Department.

    ``(3) In furnishing hospital care and medical services under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary may furnish hospital care and medical 
services for any condition regardless of whether the condition is 
connected to the service of the veteran in the Armed Forces.

[[Page 138 STAT. 439]]

    ``(4)(A) <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  A veteran who has received 
hospital care or medical services in a country pursuant to this 
subsection shall remain eligible, to the extent determined advisable and 
practicable by the Secretary, for hospital care or medical services in 
that country regardless of whether the country continues to qualify as a 
Freely Associated State for purposes of this subsection.

    ``(B) If the Secretary determines it is no longer advisable or 
practicable to allow veterans described in subparagraph (A) to remain 
eligible for hospital care or medical services pursuant to such 
subparagraph, the Secretary shall--
            ``(i) <<NOTE: Notice.>> provide direct notice of that 
        determination to such veterans; and
            ``(ii) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  publish 
        that determination and the reasons for that determination in the 
        Federal Register.

    ``(5) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  In this subsection, the term `Freely 
Associated States' means--
            ``(A) the Federated States of Micronesia, during such time 
        as it is a party to the Compact of Free Association set forth in 
        section 201 of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 
        (Public Law 99-239; 48 U.S.C. 1901 note);
            ``(B) the Republic of the Marshall Islands, during such time 
        as it is a party to the Compact of Free Association set forth in 
        section 201 of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 
        (Public Law 99-239; 48 U.S.C. 1901 note); and
            ``(C) the Republic of Palau, during such time as it is a 
        party to the Compact of Free Association between the United 
        States and the Government of Palau set forth in section 201 of 
        Joint Resolution entitled `Joint Resolution to approve the 
        ``Compact of Free Association'' between the United States and 
        the Government of Palau, and for other purposes' (Public Law 99-
        658; 48 U.S.C. 1931 note).''.
            (3) Beneficiary travel.--Section 111 of title 38, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(h)(1) <<NOTE: Payments.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary may make payments to or for any person traveling in, 
to, or from the Freely Associated States for receipt of care or services 
authorized to be legally provided by the Secretary in the Freely 
Associated States under section 1724(f)(1) of this title.

    ``(2) A person who has received payment for travel in a country 
pursuant to this subsection shall remain eligible for payment for such 
travel in that country regardless of whether the country continues to 
qualify as a Freely Associated State for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(3) <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  The Secretary shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out this subsection.

    ``(4) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  In this subsection, the term `Freely 
Associated States' means--
            ``(A) the Federated States of Micronesia, during such time 
        as it is a party to the Compact of Free Association set forth in 
        section 201 of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 
        (Public Law 99-239; 48 U.S.C. 1901 note);
            ``(B) the Republic of the Marshall Islands, during such time 
        as it is a party to the Compact of Free Association set forth in 
        section 201 of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 
        (Public Law 99-239; 48 U.S.C. 1901 note); and
            ``(C) the Republic of Palau, during such time as it is a 
        party to the Compact of Free Association between the United

[[Page 138 STAT. 440]]

        States and the Government of Palau set forth in section 201 of 
        Joint Resolution entitled `Joint Resolution to approve the 
        ``Compact of Free Association'' between the United States and 
        the Government of Palau, and for other purposes' (Public Law 99-
        658; 48 U.S.C. 1931 note).''.
            (4) Legal issues.--
                    (A) Agreements to furnish care and services.--
                          (i) In general.--Before delivering hospital 
                      care or medical services under subsection (f) of 
                      section 1724 of title 38, United States Code, as 
                      added by paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary of 
                      Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the 
                      Secretary of State, shall enter into agreements 
                      with the governments of the Freely Associated 
                      States to--
                                    (I) facilitate the furnishing of 
                                health services, including telehealth, 
                                under the laws administered by the 
                                Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
                                veterans in the Freely Associated 
                                States, such as by addressing--
                                            (aa) licensure, 
                                        certification, registration, and 
                                        tort issues relating to health 
                                        care personnel;
                                            (bb) the scope of health 
                                        services the Secretary may 
                                        furnish, as well as the means 
                                        for furnishing such services; 
                                        and
                                            (cc) matters relating to 
                                        delivery of pharmaceutical 
                                        products and medical surgical 
                                        products, including delivery of 
                                        such products through the 
                                        Consolidated Mail Outpatient 
                                        Pharmacy of the Department of 
                                        Veterans Affairs, to the Freely 
                                        Associated States;
                                    (II) clarify the authority of the 
                                Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay for 
                                tort claims as set forth under 
                                subparagraph (C); and
                                    (III) clarify authority and 
                                responsibility on any other matters 
                                determined relevant by the Secretary of 
                                Veterans Affairs or the governments of 
                                the Freely Associated States.
                          (ii) Scope of agreements.--The agreements 
                      described in clause (i) shall incorporate, to the 
                      extent practicable, the applicable laws of the 
                      Freely Associated States and define the care and 
                      services that can be legally provided by the 
                      Secretary of Veterans Affairs in the Freely 
                      Associated States.
                          (iii) Report to congress.--
                                    (I) In general.--Not later than 90 
                                days after entering into an agreement 
                                described in clause (i), the Secretary 
                                of Veterans Affairs shall submit the 
                                agreement to the appropriate committees 
                                of Congress.
                                    (II) Appropriate committees of 
                                congress defined.--In this clause, the 
                                term ``appropriate committees of 
                                Congress'' means--
                                            (aa) the Committee on Energy 
                                        and Natural Resources, the 
                                        Committee on Foreign Relations, 
                                        and the Committee on Veterans' 
                                        Affairs of the Senate; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 441]]

                                            (bb) the Committee on 
                                        Natural Resources, the Committee 
                                        on Foreign Affairs, and the 
                                        Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
                                        of the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Licensure of health care professionals providing 
                treatment via telemedicine in the freely associated 
                states.--Section 1730C(a) of title 38, United States 
                Code, is amended by striking ``any State'' and inserting 
                ``any State or any of the Freely Associated States (as 
                defined in section 1724(f) of this title)''.
                    (C) Payment of claims.--The Secretary of Veterans 
                Affairs may pay tort claims, in the manner authorized in 
                the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
                States Code, when such claims arise in the Freely 
                Associated States in connection with furnishing hospital 
                care or medical services or providing medical 
                consultation or medical advice to a veteran under the 
                laws administered by the Secretary, including through a 
                remote or telehealth program.
            (5) <<NOTE: Time period.>> Outreach and assessment of 
        options.--During the 1-year period beginning on the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, 
        subject to the availability of appropriations--
                    (A) conduct robust outreach to, and engage with, 
                each government of the Freely Associated States;
                    (B) assess options for the delivery of care through 
                the use of authorities provided pursuant to the 
                amendments made by this subsection; and
                    (C) increase staffing as necessary to conduct 
                outreach under subparagraph (A).

    (b) Authorization of Education Programs.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Grants.>>  Eligibility.--For fiscal year 2024 
        and each fiscal year thereafter, the Government of the United 
        States shall--
                    (A) continue to make available to the Federated 
                States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall 
                Islands, and the Republic of Palau, grants for services 
                to individuals eligible for such services under part B 
                of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
                U.S.C. 1411 et seq.) to the extent that those services 
                continue to be available to individuals in the United 
                States;
                    (B) continue to make available to the Federated 
                States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall 
                Islands and make available to the Republic of Palau, 
                competitive grants under the Elementary and Secondary 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), the Carl 
                D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 
                (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), and part D of the Individuals 
                with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1450 et 
                seq.), to the extent that those grants continue to be 
                available to State and local governments in the United 
                States;
                    (C) continue to make grants available to the 
                Republic of Palau under part A of title I of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6311 et seq.), the Adult Education and Family 
                Literacy Act (29 U.S.C. 3271 et seq.), and the Carl D. 
                Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 
                U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);

[[Page 138 STAT. 442]]

                    (D) continue to make available to eligible 
                institutions of higher education in the Republic of 
                Palau and make available to eligible institutions of 
                higher education in the Federated States of Micronesia 
                and the Republic of the Marshall Islands and to students 
                enrolled in those institutions of higher education, and 
                to students who are citizens of the Federated States of 
                Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
                the Republic of Palau and enrolled in institutions of 
                higher education in the United States and territories of 
                the United States, grants under--
                          (i) subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the 
                      Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a et 
                      seq.);
                          (ii) subpart 3 of part A of title IV of the 
                      Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b et 
                      seq.); and
                          (iii) part C of title IV of the Higher 
                      Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087-51 et seq.);
                    (E) <<NOTE: Requirement.>> require, as a condition 
                of eligibility for a public institution of higher 
                education in any State (as defined in section 103 of the 
                Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003)) that is 
                not a Freely Associated State to participate in or 
                receive funds under any program under title IV of such 
                Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.), that the institution 
                charge students who are citizens of the Federated States 
                of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or 
                the Republic of Palau tuition for attendance at a rate 
                that is not greater than the rate charged for residents 
                of the State in which such public institution of higher 
                education is located; and
                    (F) continue to make available, to eligible 
                institutions of higher education, secondary schools, and 
                nonprofit organizations in the Federated States of 
                Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
                the Republic of Palau, competitive grants under the 
                Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
            (2) Other formula grants.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary of Education shall not make a grant under any 
        formula grant program administered by the Department of 
        Education to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau.
            (3) Grants to the freely associated states under part b of 
        the individuals with disabilities education act.--Section 
        611(b)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1411(b)(1)) is amended by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Funds reserved.--From the amount appropriated 
                for any fiscal year under subsection (i), the Secretary 
                shall reserve not more than 1 percent, which shall be 
                used as follows:
                          ``(i) To provide assistance to the outlying 
                      areas in accordance with their respective 
                      populations of individuals aged 3 through 21.
                          ``(ii)(I) To provide each freely associated 
                      State a grant so that no freely associated State 
                      receives a lesser share of the total funds 
                      reserved for the freely associated State than the 
                      freely associated State received of those funds 
                      for fiscal year 2023.

[[Page 138 STAT. 443]]

                    ``(II) Each freely associated State shall establish 
                its eligibility under this subparagraph consistent with 
                the requirements for a State under section 612.
                    ``(III) The funds provided to each freely associated 
                State under this part may be used to provide, to each 
                infant or toddler with a disability (as defined in 
                section 632), either a free appropriate public 
                education, consistent with section 612, or early 
                intervention services consistent with part C, 
                notwithstanding the application and eligibility 
                requirements of sections 634(2), 635, and 637.''.
            (4) Technical amendments to the elementary and secondary 
        education act of 1965.--The Elementary and Secondary Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A) of section 
                1121(b)(1) (20 U.S.C. 6331(b)(1)) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) first reserve $1,000,000 for the Republic of 
                Palau, subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary may establish, except that Public Law 95-134, 
                permitting the consolidation of grants, shall not apply; 
                and''; and
                    (B) in section 8101 (20 U.S.C. 7801), by amending 
                paragraph (36) to read as follows:
            ``(36) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  Outlying area.--The term 
        `outlying area'--
                    ``(A) means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the 
                Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the United States 
                Virgin Islands; and
                    ``(B) for the purpose of any discretionary grant 
                program under this Act, includes the Republic of the 
                Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, 
                and the Republic of Palau, to the extent that any such 
                grant program continues to be available to State and 
                local governments in the United States.''.
            (5) Technical amendment to the compact of free association 
        amendments act of 2003.--Section 105(f)(1)(B) of the Compact of 
        Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921d(f)(1)(B)) is amended by striking clause (ix).
            (6) Head start programs.--
                    (A) Definitions.--Section 637 of the Head Start Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 9832) is amended, in the paragraph defining 
                the term ``State'', by striking the second sentence and 
                inserting ``The term `State' includes the Federated 
                States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall 
                Islands, and the Republic of Palau.''.
                    (B) Allotment of funds.--Section 640(a)(2)(B) of the 
                Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9835(a)(2)(B)) is amended--
                          (i) in clause (iv), by inserting ``the 
                      Republic of Palau,'' before ``and the Virgin 
                      Islands''; and
                          (ii) by amending clause (v) to read as 
                      follows:
                          ``(v) if a base grant has been established 
                      through appropriations for the Federated States of 
                      Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall 
                      Islands, to provide an amount for that 
                      jurisdiction (for Head Start agencies (including 
                      Early Head Start agencies) in the jurisdiction) 
                      that is equal to the amount provided for base 
                      grants for such jurisdiction under this subchapter 
                      for the prior fiscal year, by allotting to each 
                      agency

[[Page 138 STAT. 444]]

                      described in this clause an amount equal to that 
                      agency's base grant for the prior fiscal year; 
                      and''.
            (7) Coordination required.--The Secretary of the Interior, 
        in coordination with the Secretary of Education and the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, shall, to 
        the maximum extent practicable, coordinate with the 3 United 
        States appointees to the Joint Economic Management Committee 
        described in section 205(b)(1) and the 2 United States 
        appointees to the Joint Economic Management and Financial 
        Accountability Committee described in section 206(d)(1) to avoid 
        duplication of economic assistance for education provided under 
        section 261(a)(1) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact or 
        section 261(a)(1) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact of 
        activities or services provided under--
                    (A) the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.);
                    (B) subpart 3 of part A of title IV of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b et seq.); or
                    (C) part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act 
                of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087-51 et seq.).

    (c) Authorization of Department of Defense Programs.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  Department of defense medical 
        facilities.--The Secretary of Defense shall make available, on a 
        space available and reimbursable basis, the medical facilities 
        of the Department of Defense for use by citizens of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands, and the Republic of Palau, who are properly referred to 
        the facilities by government authorities responsible for 
        provision of medical services in the Federated States of 
        Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic 
        of Palau, and the affected jurisdictions (as defined in section 
        104(e)(2) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 
        2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921c(e)(2))).
            (2) Participation by secondary schools in the armed services 
        vocational aptitude battery student testing program.--It is the 
        sense of Congress that the Department of Defense may extend the 
        Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) Student 
        Testing Program and the ASVAB Career Exploration Program to 
        selected secondary schools in the Federated States of 
        Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the 
        Republic of Palau to the extent such programs are available to 
        Department of Defense dependent secondary schools established 
        under section 2164 of title 10, United States Code, and located 
        outside the United States.

    (d) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  Judicial Training.--In addition to 
amounts provided under section 261(a)(4) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM 
Compact and the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact and under subsections (a) 
and (b) of Article 1 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, 
for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2043, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall use the amounts made available to the Secretary of the 
Interior under section 211(c) to train judges and officials of the 
judiciary in the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau, in cooperation with the 
Pacific Islands Committee of the judicial council of the ninth judicial 
circuit of the United States.

    (e) Eligibility for the Republic of Palau.--
            (1) National health service corps.--The Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services shall make the services of the National 
        Health Service Corps available to the residents of

[[Page 138 STAT. 445]]

        the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands, and the Republic of Palau to the same extent, and for 
        the same duration, as services are authorized to be provided to 
        persons residing in any other areas within or outside the United 
        States.
            (2) Additional programs and services.--The Republic of Palau 
        shall be eligible for the programs and services made available 
        to the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands under section 108(a) of the Compact of Free 
        Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921g(a)).
            (3) Programs and services of certain agencies.--In addition 
        to the programs and services set forth in the operative Federal 
        Programs and Services Agreement between the United States and 
        the Republic of Palau, the programs and services of the 
        following agencies shall be made available to the Republic of 
        Palau:
                    (A) The Legal Services Corporation.
                    (B) The Public Health Service.
                    (C) The Rural Housing Service.

    (f) Compact Impact Fairness.--
            (1) In general.--Section 402 of the Personal Responsibility 
        and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by adding at the end the 
                following:
                    ``(N) Exception for citizens of freely associated 
                states.--With respect to eligibility for benefits for 
                any specified Federal program, paragraph (1) shall not 
                apply to any individual who lawfully resides in the 
                United States in accordance with section 141 of the 
                Compacts of Free Association between the Government of 
                the United States and the Governments of the Federated 
                States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall 
                Islands, and the Republic of Palau.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(2)(G)--
                          (i) in the subparagraph heading, by striking 
                      ``medicaid exception for'' and inserting 
                      ``exception for''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``the designated Federal 
                      program defined in paragraph (3)(C) (relating to 
                      the Medicaid program)'' and inserting ``any 
                      designated Federal program''.
            (2) Exception to 5-year wait requirement.--Section 403(b)(3) 
        of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
        Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1613(b)(3)) is amended by 
        striking ``, but only with respect to the designated Federal 
        program defined in section 402(b)(3)(C)''.
            (3) Definition of qualified alien.--Section 431(b)(8) of the 
        Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
        of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1641(b)(8)) is amended by striking ``, but 
        only with respect to the designated Federal program defined in 
        section 402(b)(3)(C) (relating to the Medicaid program)''.

    (g) Consultation With International Financial Institutions.--The 
Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of State, shall consult

[[Page 138 STAT. 446]]

with appropriate officials of the Asian Development Bank and relevant 
international financial institutions (as defined in section 1701(c) of 
the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c))), as 
appropriate, with respect to overall economic conditions in, and the 
activities of other providers of assistance to, the Freely Associated 
States.
    (h) Chief of Mission.--Section 105(b) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(b)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
            ``(5) Pursuant to section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 
        1980 (22 U.S.C. 3927), all United States Government executive 
        branch employees in the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau fall 
        under the authority of the respective applicable chief of 
        mission, except for employees identified as excepted from the 
        authority under Federal law or by Presidential directive.''.

    (i) Establishment of a Unit for the Freely Associated States in the 
Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs of the Department of State and 
Increasing Personnel Focused on Oceania.--
            (1) Definition of appropriate congressional committees.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional 
        committees'' means the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (2) Requirements.--The Secretary of State shall--
                    (A) assign additional full-time equivalent personnel 
                to the Office of Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific 
                Island Affairs of the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific 
                Affairs of the Department of State, including to the 
                unit established under subparagraph (B), as the 
                Secretary of State determines to be appropriate, in 
                accordance with paragraph (4)(A); and
                    (B) establish a unit in the Bureau of East Asian and 
                Pacific Affairs of the Department of State to carry out 
                the functions described in paragraph (3).
            (3) Functions of unit.--The unit established under paragraph 
        (2)(B) shall be responsible for the following:
                    (A) Managing the bilateral and regional relations 
                with the Freely Associated States.
                    (B) Supporting the Secretary of State in leading 
                negotiations relating to the Compacts of Free 
                Association with the Freely Associated States.
                    (C) Coordinating, in consultation with the 
                Department of the Interior, the Department of Defense, 
                and other interagency partners as appropriate, 
                implementation of the Compacts of Free Association with 
                the Freely Associated States.
            (4) Full-time equivalent employees.--The Secretary of State 
        shall--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> not later than 5 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, assign to the Office 
                of Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific Island Affairs of 
                the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, including 
                to the unit established under paragraph (2)(B), not less 
                than 4 additional full-time equivalent staff, who shall 
                not be dual-hatted, including by considering--

[[Page 138 STAT. 447]]

                          (i) the use of existing flexible hiring 
                      authorities, including Domestic Employees 
                      Teleworking Overseas (DETOs); and
                          (ii) the realignment of existing personnel, 
                      including from the United States Mission in 
                      Australia, as appropriate;
                    (B) reduce the number of vacant foreign service 
                positions in the Pacific Island region by establishing 
                an incentive program within the Foreign Service for 
                overseas positions related to the Pacific Island region; 
                and
                    (C) <<NOTE: Reports. Time period.>> report to the 
                appropriate congressional committees on progress toward 
                objectives outlined in this subsection beginning 1 year 
                from the date of the enactment of this Act and annually 
                thereafter for 5 years.

    (j) Technical Assistance.--Section 105 of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d) is amended by 
striking subsection (j) and inserting the following:
    ``(j) Technical Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Technical assistance may be provided 
        pursuant to section 224 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 
        section 224 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, or section 222 
        of the U.S.-Palau Compact (as those terms are defined in section 
        203 of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2024) 
        by Federal agencies and institutions of the Government of the 
        United States to the extent the assistance shall be provided to 
        States, territories, or units of local government.
            ``(2) Historic preservation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any technical assistance 
                authorized under paragraph (1) that is provided by the 
                Forest Service, the Natural Resources Conservation 
                Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
                the National Marine Fisheries Service, the United States 
                Coast Guard, the Advisory Council on Historic 
                Preservation, the Department of the Interior, or any 
                other Federal agency providing assistance under division 
                A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code, may 
                be provided on a nonreimbursable basis.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Grants.--During the 
                period in which the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact (as so 
                defined) and the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact (as so 
                defined) are in force, the grant programs under division 
                A of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code, shall 
                continue to apply to the Federated States of Micronesia 
                and the Republic of the Marshall Islands in the same 
                manner and to the same extent as those programs applied 
                prior to the approval of the U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-
                RMI Compact.
            ``(3) Additional funds.--Any funds provided pursuant to this 
        subsection, subsections (c), (g), (h), (i), (k), (l), and (m), 
        section 102(a), and subsections (a), (b), (f), (g), (h), and (j) 
        of section 103 shall be in addition to, and not charged against, 
        any amounts to be paid to the Federated States of Micronesia or 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to--
                    ``(A) the U.S.-FSM Compact;
                    ``(B) the U.S.-RMI Compact; or
                    ``(C) any related subsidiary agreement.''.

    (k) Continuing Trust Territory Authorization.--The authorization 
provided by the Act of June 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 330,

[[Page 138 STAT. 448]]

chapter 423), shall remain available after the effective date of the 
2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact and the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact with 
respect to the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands for transition purposes, including--
            (1) completion of projects and fulfillment of commitments or 
        obligations;
            (2) termination of the Trust Territory Government and 
        termination of the High Court;
            (3) health and education as a result of exceptional 
        circumstances;
            (4) ex gratia contributions for the populations of Bikini, 
        Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik; and
            (5) technical assistance and training in financial 
        management, program administration, and maintenance of 
        infrastructure.

    (l) Technical Amendments.--
            (1) Public health service act definition.--Section 2(f) of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201(f)) is amended by 
        striking ``and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands'' and 
        inserting ``the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau''.
            (2) Compact impact amendments.--Section 104(e) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921c(e)) is amended--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Time periods.>> in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                      ``beginning in fiscal year 2003'' and inserting 
                      ``during the period of fiscal years 2003 through 
                      2023''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``after 
                      fiscal year 2003'' and inserting ``for the period 
                      of fiscal years 2004 through 2023'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (5); and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (10) as 
                paragraphs (5) through (9), respectively.
SEC. <<NOTE: 48 USC 1989.>> 210. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Agencies, Departments, and Instrumentalities.--
            (1) In general.--Appropriations to carry out the 
        obligations, services, and programs described in paragraph (2) 
        shall be made directly to the Federal agencies, departments, and 
        instrumentalities carrying out the obligations, services and 
        programs.
            (2) Obligations, services, and programs described.--The 
        obligations, services, and programs referred to in paragraphs 
        (1) and (3) are the obligations, services, and programs under--
                    (A) sections 131 and 132, paragraphs (1) and (3) 
                through (6) of section 221(a), and section 221(b) of the 
                2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
                    (B) sections 131 and 132, paragraphs (1) and (3) 
                through (6) of section 221(a), and section 221(b) of the 
                2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
                    (C) sections 131 and 132 and paragraphs (1), (3), 
                and (4) of section 221(a) of the U.S.-Palau Compact;
                    (D) Article 6 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review 
                Agreement; and

[[Page 138 STAT. 449]]

                    (E) section 209.
            (3) Authority.--The heads of the Federal agencies, 
        departments, and instrumentalities to which appropriations are 
        made available under paragraph (1) as well as the Federal 
        Deposit Insurance Corporation shall--
                    (A) have the authority to carry out any activities 
                that are necessary to fulfill the obligations, services, 
                and programs described in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) use available funds to carry out the activities 
                under subparagraph (A).

    (b) Additional Assistance.--Any assistance provided pursuant to 
section 105(j) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 
(48 U.S.C. 1921d(j)) (as amended by section 209(j)) and sections 205(a), 
206(a), 207(b), and 209 shall be in addition to and not charged against 
any amounts to be paid to the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau pursuant 
to--
            (1) the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact;
            (2) the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact;
            (3) the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement; or
            (4) any related subsidiary agreement.

    (c) Remaining Balances.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
including section 109 of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act 
of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921h)--
            (1) remaining balances appropriated to carry out sections 
        211, 212(b), 215, and 217 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 
        shall be programmed pursuant to Article IX of the 2023 U.S.-FSM 
        Fiscal Procedures Agreement; and
            (2) remaining balances appropriated to carry out sections 
        211, 213(b), 216, and 218 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI Compact, 
        shall be programmed pursuant to Article XI of the 2023 U.S.-RMI 
        Fiscal Procedures Agreement.

    (d) Grants.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            (1) contributions under the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, 
        the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, and the 2023 
        Amended U.S.-RMI Compact may be provided as grants for purposes 
        of implementation of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM Compact, the 2023 
        U.S.-Palau Compact Review Agreement, and the 2023 Amended U.S.-
        RMI Compact under the laws of the United States; and
            (2) funds appropriated pursuant to section 211 may be 
        deposited in interest-bearing accounts and any interest earned 
        may be retained in and form part of those accounts for use 
        consistent with the purpose of the deposit.

    (e) Rule of Construction.--Except as specifically provided, nothing 
in this title or the amendments made by this title amends the following:
            (1) Title I of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 
        (48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.).
            (2) Title I of Public Law 99-658 (48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.).
            (3) Title I of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
        Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.).
            (4) Section 1259C of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2018 (48 U.S.C. 1931 note; Public Law 115-91).

[[Page 138 STAT. 450]]

            (5) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141; 132 Stat. 
        635).

    (f) <<NOTE: Grants.>> Clarification Relating to Appropriated 
Funds.--Notwithstanding section 109 of the Compacts of Free Association 
Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921h)--
            (1) funds appropriated by that section and deposited into 
        the RMI Compact Trust Fund shall be governed by the 2023 U.S.-
        RMI Trust Fund Agreement on entry into force of the 2023 U.S.-
        RMI Trust Fund Agreement;
            (2) funds appropriated by that section and deposited into 
        the FSM Compact Trust Fund shall be governed by the 2023 U.S.-
        FSM Trust Fund Agreement on entry into force of the 2023 U.S.-
        FSM Trust Fund Agreement;
            (3) funds appropriated by that section and made available 
        for fiscal year 2024 or any fiscal year thereafter as grants to 
        carry out the purposes of section 211(b) of the 2003 U.S.-RMI 
        Amended Compact shall be subject to the provisions of the 2023 
        U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement on entry into force of the 
        2023 U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement;
            (4) funds appropriated by that section and made available 
        for fiscal year 2024 or any fiscal year thereafter as grants to 
        carry out the purposes of section 221 of the 2003 U.S.-RMI 
        Amended Compact shall be subject to the provisions of the 2023 
        U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement on entry into force of the 
        2023 U.S.-RMI Fiscal Procedures Agreement, except as modified in 
        the Federal Programs and Services Agreement in force between the 
        United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
            (5) funds appropriated by that section and made available 
        for fiscal year 2024 or any fiscal year thereafter as grants to 
        carry out the purposes of section 221 of the 2003 U.S.-FSM 
        Amended Compact shall be subject to the provisions of the 2023 
        U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement on entry into force of the 
        2023 U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement, except as modified in 
        the 2023 U.S.-FSM Federal Programs and Services Agreement.
SEC. 211. <<NOTE: Time periods. 48 USC 1990.>>  COMPACT 
                        APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Funding for Activities of the Secretary of the Interior.--For 
the period of fiscal years 2024 through 2043, there are appropriated to 
the Compact of Free Association account of the Department of the 
Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
to remain available until expended, the amounts described in and to 
carry out the purposes of--
            (1) sections 261, 265, and 266 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM 
        Compact;
            (2) sections 261, 265, and 266 of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI 
        Compact; and
            (3) Articles 1, 2, and 3 of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact 
        Review Agreement.

    (b) Funding for Activities of the United States Postal Service.--
            (1) Appropriation.--There is appropriated to the United 
        States Postal Service, out of any funds in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated for each of fiscal years 2024 through 
        2043, $31,700,000, to remain available until expended, to carry

[[Page 138 STAT. 451]]

        out the costs of the following provisions that are not otherwise 
        funded:
                    (A) Section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-FSM 
                Compact.
                    (B) Section 221(a)(2) of the 2023 Amended U.S.-RMI 
                Compact.
                    (C) Section 221(a)(2) of the U.S.-Palau Compact.
                    (D) Article 6(a) of the 2023 U.S.-Palau Compact 
                Review Agreement.
            (2) Deposit.--
                    (A) In general.--The amounts appropriated to the 
                United States Postal Service under paragraph (1) shall 
                be deposited into the Postal Service Fund established 
                under section 2003 of title 39, United States Code, to 
                carry out the provisions described in that paragraph.
                    (B) Requirement.--Any amounts deposited into the 
                Postal Service Fund under subparagraph (A) shall be the 
                fiduciary, fiscal, and audit responsibility of the 
                Postal Service.

    (c) Funding for Judicial Training.--There is appropriated to the 
Secretary of the Interior to carry out section 209(d) out of any funds 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $550,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2024 through 2043, to remain available until expended.
    (d) Treatment of Previously Appropriated Amounts.--The total amounts 
made available to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia 
and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands under 
subsection (a) shall be reduced by amounts made available to the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Government of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as applicable, under section 
2101(a) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions 
Act (Public Law 118-15; 137 Stat. 81) (as amended by section 101 of 
division B of the Further Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions 
Act, 2024 (Public Law 118-22; 137 Stat. 114) and section 201 of the 
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations and Other Extensions Act, 
2024 (Public Law 118-35; 138 Stat. 7)).

                 TITLE III--EXTENSIONS AND OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF UNDETECTABLE FIREARMS ACT OF 1988.

    Section 2(f)(2) of the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. 
922 note; Public Law 100-649) is amended by striking ``35 years after 
the effective date of this Act'' and inserting ``on March 8, 2031''.
SEC. 302. <<NOTE: United States Parole Commission Additional 
                        Extension Act of 2024.>> UNITED STATES 
                        PAROLE COMMISSION EXTENSION.

    (a) <<NOTE: 18 USC 1 note.>>  Short Title.--This section may be 
cited as the ``United States Parole Commission Additional Extension Act 
of 2024''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 18 USC 3551 note.>> Amendment of Sentencing Reform Act 
of 1984.--For purposes of section 235(b) of the Sentencing Reform Act of 
1984 (18 U.S.C. 3551 note; Public Law 98-473; 98 Stat. 2032), as such 
section relates to chapter 311 of title 18, United States Code, and the 
United States Parole Commission, each reference in such section to ``36 
years and 129 days'' or ``36-year and 129-day period''

[[Page 138 STAT. 452]]

shall be deemed a reference to ``36 years and 335 days'' or ``36-year 
and 335-day period'', respectively.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN DIRECT SPENDING REDUCTIONS.

    Section 251A(6)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a(6)(D)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``7'' and inserting ``8''; 
        and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``5'' and inserting ``4''.

                       TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 401. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this 
division shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained 
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
            (2) for purposes of an allocation to the Committee on 
        Appropriations pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974; and
            (3) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.

    Approved March 9, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4366 (S. 2127):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 118-122 (Comm. on Appropriations).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 118-43 (Comm. on Appropriations) accompanying S. 
2127.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 169 (2023):
                                    July 26, 27, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                    Sept. 14, 18-20, Oct. 25, 26, 31, 
                                        Nov. 1, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                                        Vol. 170 (2024):
                                    Mar. 6, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment with an amendment 
                                        pursuant to H. Res. 1061. Senate 
                                        considered concurring in House 
                                        amendment.
                                    Mar. 8. Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    * ENDNOTE: The following appendices were added pursuant to the 
provisions of section 208(h)(1) of Title II of Division G of this Act 
(138 Stat. 437).



[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-1]]

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

                  The table of contents is as follows:

        APPENDIX A--2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact

        APPENDIX B--2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-RMI Compact



[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-3]]

        APPENDIX A--2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact

                 Agreement between the Government of the

                        United States of America

        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia

          to Amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia (the ``Signatory Governments'') hereby 
agree to amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia, done at Palikir on May 14, 2003 (the 
``Compact, as Amended''), as follows:

 
 
Part 1. Title Two Amendments
 
 
1. Article I of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced with the 
following:
 

                               ``Article I

                            Grant Assistance

Section 211
 
    (a) Sector Grants. In order to assist the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia in its efforts to promote the economic 
advancement, budgetary self-reliance, and economic self-sufficiency of 
its people, and in recognition of the special relationship that exists 
between the Federated States of Micronesia and the United States, the 
Government of the United States shall provide assistance on a sector 
grant basis beginning in Fiscal Year 2004 in the amounts set forth in 
section 216. Such grants shall be used for assistance in the sectors of 
education, health care, private sector development, the environment, 
public sector capacity building, and public infrastructure, or for other 
sectors as mutually agreed, with priorities in the education and health 
care sectors. For each year such sector grant assistance is made 
available, the proposed division of this amount among these sectors 
shall be certified to the Government of the United States by the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and shall be subject to 
the concurrence of the Government of the United States. In such case, 
the Government of the United States shall disburse the

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-4]]

agreed upon amounts and monitor the use of such sector grants in 
accordance with the provisions of this Article and the Agreement 
Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United States Economic 
Assistance Provided in the Compact of Free Association, as amended, 
Between the Government of the United States of America and the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, done at Palikir on 
February 27, 2004 (``2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement'').
 
            (1) Education. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to support and improve the educational system of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia and develop the human, financial, 
        and material resources necessary for the Government of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia to perform these services. 
        Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic education 
        system.

  
            (2) Health. United States grant assistance under subsection 
        (a) of this section shall be made available in accordance with 
        the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support 
        and improve the delivery of preventive, curative and 
        environmental care and develop the human, financial, and 
        material resources necessary for the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia to perform these services.

  
            (3) Private Sector Development. United States grant 
        assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with the plan described in subsection 
        (c) of this section to support the efforts of the Government of 
        the Federated States of Micronesia to attract foreign investment 
        and increase indigenous business activity by vitalizing the 
        commercial environment, ensuring fair and equitable application 
        of the law, promoting adherence to core labor standards, and 
        maintaining progress toward privatization of state-owned and 
        partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging in other 
        reforms.

  
            (4) Capacity Building in the Public Sector. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the plan described in 
        subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to build 
        effective, accountable, and transparent national, state, and 
        local government and other public sector institutions and 
        systems.

  
            (5) Environment. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to increase environmental protection; conserve and 
        achieve sustainable use of natural

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-5]]

        resources; and engage in environmental infrastructure planning, 
        design, construction, and operation.

  
            (6) Public Infrastructure.

  
                    (i) U.S. annual grant assistance under subsection 
                (a) of this section shall be made available in 
                accordance with a list of specific projects included in 
                the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to 
                assist the Government of the Federated States of 
                Micronesia in its efforts to provide adequate public 
                infrastructure.

  
                    (ii) Infrastructure and Maintenance Fund. Five 
                percent of the annual public infrastructure grant made 
                available under paragraph (i) of this subsection shall 
                be set aside, with an equal contribution from the 
                Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, as a 
                contribution to an Infrastructure Maintenance Fund 
                (IMF). Administration of the Infrastructure Maintenance 
                Fund shall be governed by the 2004 Fiscal Procedures 
                Agreement through Fiscal Year 2023.

  
    (b) Humanitarian Assistance - Federated States of Micronesia 
Program. In recognition of the special development needs of the 
Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the United States 
shall make available to the Government of the Federated States of 
Micronesia, on its request and to be deducted from the grant amount made 
available under subsection (a) of this section and subsection (a) of 
section 261, a Humanitarian Assistance - Federated States of Micronesia 
(``HAFSM'') Program with emphasis on health, education, and 
infrastructure (including transportation), projects. The terms and 
conditions of the HAFSM shall be set forth in the Agreement Regarding 
the Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the United 
States in the Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to 
Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended.
  
    (c) Development Plan. Through Fiscal Year 2023, the Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia shall prepare and maintain an 
official overall development plan. The plan shall be strategic in 
nature, shall be continuously reviewed and updated through the annual 
budget process, and shall make projections on a multi-year rolling 
basis. Each of the sectors named in subsection (a) of this section, or 
other sectors as mutually agreed, shall be accorded specific treatment 
in the plan. Insofar as grants funds are involved, the plan shall be 
subject to the concurrence of the Government of the United States.
  
    (d) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. Through Fiscal Year 2023, an 
amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall be provided 
annually, with an equal contribution from the Government of the 
Federated States

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-6]]

of Micronesia, as a contribution to a ``Disaster Assistance Emergency 
Fund'' (DAEF). Through Fiscal Year 2023, any funds from the DAEF may be 
used only for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from disasters and 
emergencies. Through Fiscal Year 2023, the funds will be accessed upon 
declaration by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
with the concurrence of the United States Chief of Mission to the 
Federated States of Micronesia. Through Fiscal Year 2023, the 
administration of the DAEF shall be governed by the 2004 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement.
  
Section 212 - Accountability
  
    (a) Regulations and policies normally applicable to United States 
financial assistance to its state and local governments, as reflected in 
the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, shall apply to each sector grant 
described in section 211, except as modified in Article IX of the 
Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United States 
Economic Assistance Provided in the 2023 Amended Compact Between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia, done at Palikir on May 23, 2023 (``2023 
Fiscal Procedures Agreement''), and to grants administered under section 
221 made before Fiscal Year 2024, except as modified in the separate 
agreements referred to in section 231 or by United States law. Through 
Fiscal Year 2023, the Government of the United States, after annual 
consultations with the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
may attach reasonable terms and conditions, including annual performance 
indicators that are necessary to ensure effective use of United States 
assistance and reasonable progress toward achieving program objectives. 
Through Fiscal Year 2023, the Government of the United States may seek 
appropriate remedies for noncompliance with the terms and conditions 
attached to the assistance, or for failure to comply with section 234, 
including withholding assistance.
  
    (b) The Government of the United States shall, for each fiscal year 
of the twenty years during which assistance is to be provided on a 
sector grant basis under section 211, grant the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia an amount equal to the lesser of (i) one 
half of the reasonable, properly documented cost incurred during each 
fiscal year to conduct the annual audit required under Article VIII(2) 
of the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement or (ii) $500,000. Such amount 
will not be adjusted for inflation under section 217 or otherwise.
  
Section 213 - Joint Economic Management Committee
  
    The Governments of the United States and the Federated States of 
Micronesia shall establish a Joint Economic Management Committee. 
Through Fiscal Year 2023, the Joint Economic Management Committee shall 
be governed as follows. The Joint Economic Committee shall be composed 
of a U.S. chair, two other members from

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-7]]

the Government of the United States, and two members from the Government 
of the Federated States of Micronesia. The Joint Economic Management 
Committee shall meet at least once each year to review the audits and 
reports required under Article I of this Title, evaluate the progress 
made by the Federated States of Micronesia in meeting the objectives 
identified in its plan described in subsection (c) of section 211, with 
particular focus on those parts of the plan dealing with the sectors 
identified in subsection (a) of section 211, identify problems 
encountered, and recommend ways to increase the effectiveness of U.S. 
assistance made available under this Title. The establishment and 
operations of the Joint Economic Management Committee shall be governed 
by the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
Section 214 - Annual Report
  
    Through Fiscal Year 2023, the Government of the Federated States of 
Micronesia shall report annually to the President of the United States 
on the use of United States sector grant assistance and other assistance 
and progress in meeting mutually agreed program and economic goals. 
Through Fiscal Year 2023, the Joint Economic Management Committee shall 
review and comment on the report and make appropriate recommendations 
based thereon.
  
Section 215 - Trust Fund
  
    (a) The Government of the United States shall contribute annually 
for twenty years in the amounts set forth in section 216 into a trust 
fund (``Trust Fund'') established in accordance with the Agreement 
Between the Government of the United States of America and the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Implementing Section 
215 and Section 216 of the Compact, as Amended Regarding a Trust Fund, 
done at Palikir on May 14, 2003 (``2003 Trust Fund Agreement'').
  
    (b) The United States contribution into the Trust Fund described in 
subsection (a) of this section is conditioned on the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia contributing to the Trust Fund at least 
$30 million, prior to September 30, 2004. Any funds received by the 
Federated States of Micronesia under section 111 (d) of Public Law 99-
239 (January 14, 1986), or successor provisions, would be contributed to 
the Trust Fund as a Federated States of Micronesia contribution.
  
    (c) The terms regarding the investment and management of funds and 
use of the income of the Trust Fund shall be set forth in the 2003 Trust 
Fund Agreement and shall apply for the duration of that agreement. 
Through Fiscal Year 2023, funds derived from United States investment 
shall not be subject to Federal or state taxes in the United States or 
the Federated States of Micronesia. The 2003 Trust Fund Agreement shall 
also provide for annual reports to the Government of the United States 
and to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia. The 2003 
Trust Fund Agreement shall provide for appropriate distributions

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-8]]

of Trust Fund proceeds to the Federated States of Micronesia and for 
appropriate remedies for the failure of the Federated States of 
Micronesia to use income of the Trust Fund for the annual grant purposes 
set forth in section 211. These remedies may include the return to the 
Government of the United States of the present market value of its 
contributions to the Trust Fund and the present market value of any 
undistributed income on the contributions of the Government of the 
United States.
  
Section 216 - Sector Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
  
    The funds described in sections 211, 212(b), and 215 shall be made 
available as follows:


                                          (In millions of U.S. dollars)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Audit Grant
                Fiscal year                   Annual Grants Section   Section 212(b)      Trust Fund      Total
                                                       211            (amount up to)      Section 215
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2004                                     76.2                                 .5               16      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2005                                     76.2                                 .5               16      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2006                                     76.2                                 .5               16      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2007                                     75.4                                 .5              16.8     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2008                                     74.6                                 .5              17.6     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2009                                     73.8                                 .5              18.4     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2010                                     73                                   .5              19.2     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2011                                     72.2                                 .5               20      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2012                                     71.4                                 .5              20.8     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2013                                     70.6                                 .5              21.6     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2014                                     69.8                                 .5              22.4     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2015                                     69                                   .5              23.2     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2016                                     68.2                                 .5               24      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2017                                     67.4                                 .5              24.8     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2018                                     66.6                                 .5              25.6     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2019                                     65.8                                 .5              26.4     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2020                                     65                                   .5              27.2     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2021                                     64.2                                 .5               28      92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2022                                     63.4                                 .5              28.8     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
    2023                                     62.6                                 .5              29.6     92.7
 ..........................................  ......................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-9]]

  
Section 217 - Inflation Adjustment
  
    Except for the amounts provided for audits under section 212(b), the 
amounts stated in Article I of this Title shall be adjusted for each 
United States Fiscal Year by the percent that equals two-thirds of the 
percent change in the United States Gross Domestic Product Implicit 
Price Deflator, or 5 percent, whichever is less in any one year, using 
the beginning of Fiscal Year 2004 as a base.
 
Section 218 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
 
    If in any year the funds made available by the Government of the 
United States for that year pursuant to this Article are not completely 
obligated by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
unobligated balances shall remain available in addition to the funds to 
be provided in subsequent years. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, the 
carry-over of funds provided under this Article shall be governed by 
Article IX of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.''
 
 
2. Article II of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced with the 
following:
 
 

                              ``Article II

                     Services and Program Assistance

 
Section 221
 
    (a) Services. The Government of the United States shall make 
available to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, in 
accordance with and to the extent provided in the Federal Programs and 
Services Agreement referred to in section 231, the services and related 
programs of:
 
            (1) the United States Weather Service;

 
            (2) the United States Postal Service;

 
            (3) the United States Federal Aviation Administration;

 
            (4) the United States Department of Transportation;

 
            (5) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and

 
            (6) the Federal Emergency Management Agency of the 
        Department of Homeland Security and the United States Agency for 
        International Development.

 
                The United States departments and agencies named or 
                having responsibility to provide these services and 
                related

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-10]]

                programs shall have the authority to implement the 
                relevant provisions of the Federal Programs and Services 
                Agreement referred to in section 231.

 
    (b) Programs.
 
            (1) With the exception of the services and programs covered 
        by subsection (a) of this section, and unless the Congress of 
        the United States provides otherwise, the Government of the 
        United States shall make available to the Government of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia the services and programs that 
        were available to the Government of the Federated States of 
        Micronesia on June 25, 2004, to the extent that such services 
        and programs continue to be available to State and local 
        governments of the United States. Sector grants provided under 
        this Title shall be considered to be local revenues of the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia when used as 
        the local share required to obtain Federal programs and 
        services.

 
            (2) Unless provided otherwise by United States law, the 
        services and programs described in paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection shall be extended in accordance with the terms of the 
        Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 
        231.

 
    (c) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise such 
authority as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this 
Title and the separate agreement referred to in section 231, including 
the authority to monitor and administer all service and program 
assistance provided by the Government of the United States to the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.
 
    (d) Except as provided elsewhere in this Compact, as amended, under 
any separate agreement entered into under this Compact, as amended, or 
otherwise under United States law, all Federal domestic programs 
extended to or operating in the Federated States of Micronesia shall be 
subject to all applicable criteria, standards, reporting requirements, 
auditing procedures, and other rules and regulations applicable to such 
programs and services when operating in the United States.
 
    (e) The Government of the United States may make available to the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia alternate energy 
development projects, studies, and conservation measures to the extent 
provided for the Freely Associated States in the laws of the United 
States.
 
Section 222
 
    The Government of the United States and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia may decide from time to

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-11]]

time to extend to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia 
additional United States grant assistance, services, and programs, as 
provided under the laws of the United States. Unless inconsistent with 
such laws, or otherwise specifically precluded by the Government of the 
United States at the time such additional grant assistance, services, or 
programs are extended, the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
referred to in section 231 shall apply to any such assistance, services, 
or programs.
 
Section 223
 
    The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall make 
available to the Government of the United States facilities and areas in 
the Federated States of Micronesia as may be necessary for the 
operations of the services and programs provided pursuant to this 
Article and set forth in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
referred to in section 231, or as may be mutually agreed thereafter.
 
Section 224
 
    The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia may request, 
from time to time, technical assistance from the Federal agencies and 
institutions of the Government of the United States, which are 
authorized to grant such technical assistance in accordance with United 
States laws. If technical assistance is granted pursuant to such a 
request, the Government of the United States shall provide the technical 
assistance in a manner which gives priority consideration to the 
Federated States of Micronesia over other recipients not a part of the 
United States, its territories or possessions, and equivalent 
consideration to the Federated States of Micronesia with respect to 
other states in Free Association with the United States. Such assistance 
shall be made available on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis to 
the extent provided by United States law.''
 
 
3. Article III of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced with the 
following:
 
 

                              ``Article III

                        Administrative Provisions

Section 231
 
    The specific nature, extent, and contractual arrangements of the 
services and programs provided for in section 221 of this Compact, as 
amended, as well as the legal status of agencies of the Government of 
the United States, their civilian employees and contractors, and the 
dependents of such personnel while present in the Federated States of 
Micronesia, and other arrangements in connection with the assistance, 
services, or programs furnished by the Government of the United States, 
are set forth in a Federal Programs and Services Agreement.

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-12]]

 
Section 232
 
    The Government of the United States, in consultation with the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, shall determine and 
implement procedures for audits, as appropriate, of all grants and other 
assistance made under Article I and Article VI of this Title and of all 
funds expended for the services and programs provided under Article II 
of this Title.
 
Section 233
 
    Approval of this Compact, as amended, by the Government of the 
United States, in accordance with its constitutional processes, shall 
constitute a pledge by the Government of the United States that the sums 
and amounts specified as sector grants in section 211 and section 261 of 
this Compact, as amended, shall be appropriated and paid to the 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia for such period as 
those provisions of this Compact, as amended, remain in force, subject 
to the terms and conditions of this Title and related subsidiary 
agreements.
 
Section 234
 
    The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia pledges to 
cooperate with, permit, and assist if reasonably requested, designated 
and authorized representatives of the Government of the United States 
charged with investigating whether Compact funds, or any other 
assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended, have been, or are 
being, used for purposes other than those set forth in this Compact, as 
amended, or its subsidiary agreements. In carrying out this 
investigative authority, such United States Government representatives 
may request that the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia 
subpoena documents and records and compel testimony in accordance with 
the laws and Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia. Such 
assistance by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to 
the Government of the United States shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
The obligation of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia 
to fulfill its pledge herein is a condition to its receiving payment of 
such funds or other assistance authorized under this Compact, as 
amended. The Government of the United States shall pay any reasonable 
costs for extraordinary services executed by the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia in carrying out the provisions of this 
section.
 
Section 235
 
    The provision of any United States assistance under this Compact, as 
amended or any subsidiary agreement to this Compact, as amended, shall 
constitute ``a particular distribution . . . required by the terms or 
special nature of the assistance'' for purposes of Article XII, section 
1(b) of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia.
 
 

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-13]]

4. A new Article VI shall be added at the end of Title Two of the 
Compact, as Amended and shall read as follows:
 
 

                              ``Article VI

            Continued Economic Assistance and Accountability

 
Section 261 - Grants
 
    (a) Sector Grants. The Government of the United States shall provide 
assistance on a sector grant basis as set forth in section 266, subject 
to the provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement. These sector 
grants shall be used for assistance in the sectors of education, health 
care, private sector development, the environment, public sector 
capacity building, public infrastructure, and enhanced reporting and 
accountability, or for other sectors as mutually decided. The Government 
of the United States shall monitor the use of such sector grants in 
accordance with the provisions of this Article and the 2023 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement.
 
            (1) Education. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to support and improve the educational system of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia and develop the human, financial, 
        and material resources necessary for the Government of the 
        Federated States of Micronesia to perform these services. 
        Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic education 
        system.

 
            (2) Health. United States grant assistance under subsection 
        (a) of this section shall be made available in accordance with 
        the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support 
        and improve the delivery of preventive, curative, and 
        environmental care and to develop the human, financial, and 
        material resources necessary for the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia to perform these services.

 
            (3) Private Sector Development. United States grant 
        assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with the plan described in subsection 
        (c) of this section to support the efforts of the Government of 
        the Federated States of Micronesia to attract foreign investment 
        and increase indigenous business activity by vitalizing the 
        commercial environment, ensuring fair and equitable application 
        of the law, promoting adherence to core labor standards, 
        maintaining progress toward privatization of state-owned and 
        partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging in other 
        reforms.

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-14]]

 
            (4) Capacity Building in the Public Sector. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the plan described in 
        subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to build 
        effective, accountable, and transparent national, state, and 
        local government and other public sector institutions and 
        systems.

 
            (5) Environment. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to increase environmental protection; conserve and 
        achieve sustainable use of natural resources; address climate 
        change; and engage in environmental infrastructure planning, 
        design, construction, and operation.

 
            (6) Public Infrastructure. United States annual grant 
        assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with the plan described in subsection 
        (c) of this section and for projects included in the plan 
        described in Article V(2) of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
        Agreement to assist the Government of the Federated States of 
        Micronesia in its efforts to provide adequate public 
        infrastructure.

 
            (7) Enhanced Reporting and Accountability. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the plan described in 
        subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to address the 
        costs of compliance inherent in implementing its obligations 
        with respect to sector grant assistance.

 
    (b) Infrastructure Maintenance Fund. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, 
contributions to and administration of the Infrastructure Maintenance 
Fund shall be governed by the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
 
    (c) Development Plan. Beginning in the Fiscal Year after which the 
2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement enters into force, the Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia shall prepare and maintain an 
official overall development plan. The plan shall be strategic in 
nature, shall be continuously reviewed and updated through the annual 
budget process, and shall make projections on a multi-year rolling 
basis. Each of the sectors named in subsection (a) of this section, or 
other sectors as mutually decided, shall be accorded specific treatment 
in the plan. Insofar as sector grant funds are involved, the plan shall 
be subject to the concurrence of the Joint Economic Management 
Committee, as set forth in the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
 

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-15]]

    (d) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. Beginning in Fiscal Year 
2024, the Government of the United States and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia shall provide amounts to the DAEF to the 
extent provided in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred 
to in section 231. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, any funds from the 
DAEF may be used only for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from 
disasters and emergencies, or for disaster preparedness activities. 
Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, the DAEF shall be subject to relevant 
provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement and the Federal 
Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231.
 
Section 262 - Accountability
 
    (a) The 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement shall apply to each grant 
described in section 261 and section 266, and to grants administered 
under section 221 made in Fiscal Year 2024 or later, except as modified 
in the separate agreement referred to in section 231 or by United States 
law. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, and consistent with the 2023 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement, the Government of the United States may attach 
reasonable terms and conditions to any United States assistance provided 
under this Article and may seek appropriate remedies for noncompliance 
with such terms and conditions or for failure to comply with section 
234, including the withholding of such assistance.
 
    (b) The cost of the annual audit required under Article VIII(2) of 
the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement shall be borne by the Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia and may be paid for from the amounts 
made available for sector grants described in section 261(a).
 
Section 263 - Joint Economic Management Committee
 
    Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024, the Joint Economic Management 
Committee shall be governed by the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement and 
shall be composed of a U.S. chairperson, two other members from the 
Government of the United States, and three members from the Government 
of the Federated States of Micronesia.
 
Section 264 - Biennial Report
 
    Beginning in Fiscal Year 2024 and every two years thereafter until 
two years after all sector grants provided under section 261(a) are 
closed out, the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall 
report to the President of the United States on the use of United States 
sector grant assistance and other assistance provided by the Government 
of the United States during the previous two Fiscal Years, and on the 
progress of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia in 
meeting program and economic goals. The Joint Economic Management 
Committee shall review and comment on the report and make appropriate 
recommendations based thereon.
 

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-16]]

Section 265 - Trust Fund
 
    (a) The Government of the United States shall contribute the amounts 
set forth in section 266 to the Trust Fund to be used in the sectors 
described in section 261(a) and in accordance with the Agreement Between 
the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Federated States of Micronesia Regarding the Compact Trust Fund, done at 
Palikir on May 23, 2023 (``2023 Trust Fund Agreement'').
 
    (b) The 2023 Trust Fund Agreement, and any successor agreements, 
shall govern the Trust Fund and all contributions made pursuant to this 
Title and shall provide for:
 
            (1) Exemption from federal and state taxes in the United 
        States and the Federated States of Micronesia of all funds 
        derived from the United States investment;

 
            (2) Annual reports to the Government of the United States 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia;

 
            (3) Distributions from the Trust Fund to provide an ongoing 
        source of support for certain needs of the Federated States of 
        Micronesia while protecting the sustainability of the Trust 
        Fund;

 
            (4) Fiscal procedures that are sufficient to provide 
        oversight of the Trust Fund, including for expending of and 
        accounting for distributions, and to ensure that distributions 
        are used for the purposes described in section 261(a);

 
            (5) A Joint Trust Fund Committee composed of three voting 
        members appointed by the Government of the United States, to 
        include the chair of the Joint Trust Fund Committee, and three 
        voting members appointed by the Government of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia; and

 
            (6) Appropriate remedies for the gross failure of the 
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to use Trust 
        Fund distributions in accordance with the 2023 Trust Fund 
        Agreement, to include the return to the Government of the United 
        States of the present market value of its contributions to the 
        Trust Fund and the present market value of any undistributed 
        income derived therefrom.

 
    (c) If this Compact, as amended, is terminated, the provisions of 
sections 451 through 453 of this Compact, as amended, shall govern 
treatment of any United States contributions to the Trust Fund and any 
undistributed income derived therefrom.
 

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-17]]

Section 266 - Sector Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
 
    The funds described in sections 261(a) and 265 shall be made 
available as follows:
 

                                          (In millions of U.S. dollars)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Sector Grants (Section
                Fiscal year                         261(a))         Trust Fund (Section 265)         Total
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    2024                                    140                                         250                 390
 
    2025                                    140                                         250                 390
 
    2026                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2027                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2028                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2029                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2030                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2031                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2032                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2033                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2034                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2035                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2036                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2037                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2038                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2039                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2040                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2041                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2042                                    140                                          --                 140
 
    2043                                    140                                          --                 140
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
Section 267 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
 
    All funds made available under this Article shall be available until 
expended. The carry-over of unused funds made available under this 
Article shall be governed by Article IX of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
Agreement.''
 
 

[[Page 132 STAT. 452A-18]]

Part 2. Title Four Amendments
 
 
    Article V of Title Four of the Compact, as Amended shall be amended 
as follows:
 
        a. The word ``twentieth'' shall be replaced with the word 
        ``fortieth'';

 
        b. ``Trust Fund Agreement'' shall be replaced with ``2023 Trust 
        Fund Agreement'';

 
        c. In Sections 451(b), 452(b), and 453(c), ``section 215'' shall 
        be replaced with ``section 265''; and

 
        d. In Sections 451(c), 452(c), and 453(d), ``section 215'' shall 
        be replaced with ``section 215 and section 265''.

 
 
Part 3. Final Provisions
 
 
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later note 
in an exchange of notes between the Signatory Governments indicating 
that each Signatory Government has completed its internal procedures for 
entry into force.
 
 
2. The Signatory Governments may mutually agree to continue the 
provision of sector grants, trust fund contributions, and federal 
programs and services beyond fiscal year 2043 at similar favorable 
levels and subject to similar favorable terms identified in the 
amendments described in Part 1 of this Agreement, the 2023 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement, and the 2023 Trust Fund Agreement.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their 
respective governments, have signed this Agreement.
 
 
DONE at Palikir on May 23, 2023.

 
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF                                                 FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES                                                     THE FEDERATED STATES
OF AMERICA:                                                           OF MICRONESIA:
 
ALISSA M. BIBB                                                        LEO A. FALCAM JR.
 




[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-19]]

        APPENDIX B--2023 Agreement to Amend the U.S.-FSM Compact

                 Agreement between the Government of the

                        United States of America

       and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands

          to Amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands (the ``Signatory Governments'') hereby 
agree to amend .the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, done at Majuro on April 30, 2003 (the 
``Compact, as Amended''), as follows:

  
  
Part 1. Title Two Amendments
  
  
1. Article I of Title Two of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced 
with the following:

                               ``Article I

                            Grant Assistance

Section 211
  
    (a) Sector Grants. In order to assist the Government of the Republic 
of the Marshall Islands in its efforts to promote the economic 
advancement and budgetary self-reliance of its people, and in 
recognition of the special relationship that exists between the Republic 
of the Marshall Islands and the United States, the Government of the 
United States shall provide assistance on a sector grant basis beginning 
in FY 2004 in the amounts set forth in section 217. Such grants shall be 
used for assistance in education, health care, the environment, public 
sector capacity building, and private sector development, or for other 
areas as mutually agreed, with priorities in the education and health 
care sectors. Consistent with the medium-term budget and investment 
framework described in subsection (f) of this section, the proposed 
division of this amount among the identified areas shall require the 
concurrence of both the Government of the United States and the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, through the Joint 
Economic Management and Financial Accountability Committee described in 
section 214. The Government of the

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-20]]

United States shall disburse the grant assistance and monitor the use of 
such grant assistance in accordance with the provisions of this Article 
and the Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United 
States Economic Assistance Provided in the Compact, as amended, of Free 
Association Between the Government of the United States of America and 
the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, done at Majuro 
on March 23, 2004 (``2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement'').
  
            (1) Education. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the strategic framework described in subsection 
        (f) of this section to support and improve the educational 
        system of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and develop the 
        human, financial, and material resources necessary for the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands to perform these services. 
        Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic education 
        system.

  
            (2) Health. United States grant assistance under subsection 
        (a) of this section shall be made available in accordance with 
        the strategic framework described in subsection (f) of this 
        section to support and improve the delivery of preventive, 
        curative, and environmental care and develop the human, 
        financial, and material resources necessary for the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands to perform these services.

  
            (3) Private Sector Development. United States grant 
        assistance shall be made available in accordance with the 
        strategic framework described in subsection (f) of this section 
        to support the efforts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
        to attract foreign investment and increase indigenous business 
        activity by vitalizing the commercial environment, ensuring fair 
        and equitable application of the law, promoting adherence to 
        core labor standards, maintaining progress toward privatization 
        of state-owned and partially state-owned enterprises, and 
        engaging in other reforms.

  
            (4) Capacity Building in the Public Sector. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the strategic framework 
        described in subsection (f) of this section to support the 
        efforts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to build 
        effective, accountable, and transparent national and local 
        government and other public sector institutions and systems.

  
            (5) Environment. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the strategic framework described in subsection 
        (f) of this section to increase environmental protection; 
        establish and manage conservation areas; engage in environmental 
        infrastructure planning, design construction, and operation; and 
        to involve

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-21]]

        the citizens of the Republic of the Marshall Islands in the 
        process of conserving their country's natural resources.

  
    (b) Kwajalein Atoll
  
            (1) Of the total grant assistance made available under 
        subsection (a) of this section, the amount specified herein 
        shall be allocated annually from FY 2004 through FY 2023 (and 
        thereafter in accordance with the Agreement Regarding the 
        Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the 
        United States in the Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded 
        Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free 
        Association, as Amended) to advance the objectives and specific 
        priorities set forth in subsections (a) and (d) of this section 
        and the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement through 2023 (and 
        thereafter to advance the objectives and specific priorities set 
        forth in subsection (a) of section 261 and the 2023 Fiscal 
        Procedures Agreement), to address the special needs of the 
        community at Ebeye, Kwajalein Atoll and other Marshallese 
        communities within Kwajalein Atoll. This United States grant 
        assistance shall be made available, in accordance with the 
        medium-term budget and investment framework described in 
        subsection (f) of this section through FY 2023, and thereafter 
        in subsection (c) of section 261, to support and improve the 
        infrastructure and delivery of services and develop the human 
        and material resources necessary for the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands to carry out its responsibility to maintain 
        such infrastructure and deliver such services. The amount of 
        this assistance shall be $3.1 million, with an inflation 
        adjustment as provided in section 218, from FY 2004 through FY 
        2013 and the FY 2013 level of funding, with an inflation 
        adjustment as provided in section 218, shall be increased by $2 
        million for FY 2014. The FY 2014 level of funding, with an 
        inflation adjustment as provided in section 218, shall be made 
        available from FY 2015 through FY 2023 (and thereafter as noted 
        above).

  
            (2) The Government of the United States shall also provide 
        to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in 
        conjunction with section 321(a) of this Compact, as amended, an 
        annual payment from FY 2004 through FY 2023 (and thereafter in 
        accordance with the Agreement Regarding the Military Use and 
        Operating Rights of the Government of the United States in the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 
        321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended) of 
        $1.9 million. This grant assistance shall be subject to the 2004 
        Fiscal Procedures Agreement through FY 2023, and thereafter to 
        the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, and shall be adjusted for 
        inflation under section 218 and used to address the special 
        needs of the community at Ebeye, Kwajalein Atoll and other 
        Marshallese communities

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-22]]

        within Kwajalein Atoll with emphasis on the Kwajalein 
        landowners, as described in the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement 
        through FY 2023, and thereafter in the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
        Agreement.

  
            (3) Of the total grant assistance made available under 
        subsection (a) of this section, and in conjunction with section 
        321(a) of the Compact, as amended, $200,000, with an inflation 
        adjustment as provided in section 218, shall be allocated 
        annually from FY 2004 through FY 2023 (and thereafter as 
        provided in the Agreement Regarding the Military Use and 
        Operating Rights of the Government of the United States in the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 
        321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended) for 
        a grant to support increased participation of the Government of 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands Environmental Protection 
        Authority in the annual U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll Environmental 
        Standards Survey and to promote a greater Government of the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands capacity for independent 
        analysis of the Survey's findings and conclusions.

  
    (c) Humanitarian Assistance - Republic of the Marshall Islands 
Program. In recognition of the special development needs of the Republic 
of the Marshall Islands, the Government of the United States shall make 
available to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, on 
the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands' request and to 
be deducted from the grant amount made available under subsection (a) of 
this section and subsection (a) of section 261, a Humanitarian 
Assistance--Republic of the Marshall Islands (``HARMI'') Program with 
emphasis on health, education, and infrastructure (including 
transportation) projects and such other projects as mutually decided. 
The terms and conditions of the HARMI shall be set forth in the 
Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of the 
Government of the United States in the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free 
Association, as Amended.
  
    (d) Public Infrastructure
  
            (1) Unless otherwise agreed, not less than 30 percent and 
        not more than 50 percent of U.S. annual grant assistance 
        provided under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with a list of specific projects 
        included in the infrastructure improvement and maintenance plan 
        prepared by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands as part of the strategic framework described in 
        subsection (f) of this section.

  
            (2) Infrastructure Maintenance Fund. Five percent of the 
        annual public infrastructure grant made available under 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be set

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-23]]

        aside, with an equal contribution from the Government of the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands, as a contribution to an 
        Infrastructure Maintenance Fund. Administration of the 
        Infrastructure Maintenance Fund shall be governed by the 2004 
        Fiscal Procedures Agreement through FY 2023.

  
    (e) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. Of the total grant 
assistance made available under subsection (a) of this section, an 
amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall be provided 
annually, with an equal contribution from the Government of the Republic 
of the Marshall Islands, as a contribution to a Disaster Assistance 
Emergency Fund (``DAEF''). Through FY 2023, any funds from the DAEF may 
be used only for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from disasters 
and emergencies. Through FY 2023, the funds shall be accessed upon 
declaration of a State of Emergency by the Government of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands, with the concurrence of the United States Chief of 
Mission to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Through FY 2023, the 
administration of the DAEF shall be governed by the 2004 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement.
  
    (f) Budget and Investment Framework. Through FY 2023, the Government 
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall prepare and maintain an 
official medium-term budget and investment framework. The framework 
shall be strategic in nature, shall be continuously reviewed and updated 
through the annual budget process, and shall make projections on a 
multi-year rolling basis. Each of the sectors and areas named in 
subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this section, or other sectors and 
areas as mutually agreed, shall be accorded specific treatment in the 
framework. Those portions of the framework that contemplate the use of 
United States grant funds shall require the concurrence of both the 
Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands.
  
Section 212 - Kwajalein Impact and Use
  
    The Government of the United States shall provide to the Government 
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands in conjunction with section 
321(a) of the Compact, as amended, and the Agreement Regarding the 
Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the United States 
in the Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 
321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, a payment in 
FY 2004 of $15 million, with no adjustment for inflation. In FY 2005 and 
through FY 2013, the annual payment shall be the FY 2004 amount ($15 
million) with an inflation adjustment as provided under section 218. In 
FY 2014, the annual payment shall be $18 million (with no adjustment for 
inflation) or the FY 2013 amount with an inflation adjustment under 
section 218, whichever is greater. For FY 2015 through FY 2023 (and 
thereafter in accordance with the Agreement Regarding the Military Use 
and Operating Rights of the Government of the United States in the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 
323 of the Compact of

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-24]]

Free Association, as Amended) the annual payment shall be the FY 2014 
amount, with an inflation adjustment as provided under section 218.
  
Section 213 - Accountability
  
    (a) Regulations and policies normally applicable to United States 
financial assistance to its state and local governments, as set forth in 
the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, shall apply to each grant 
described in section 211, except as modified in the Agreement Concerning 
Procedures for the Implementation of United States Economic Assistance 
Provided in the 2023 Amended Compact Between the Government of the 
United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands, done at Honolulu on October 16, 2023 (``2023 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement''), and to grants administered under section 221 
made before FY 2024, except as modified in the separate agreements 
referred to in section 231 of this Compact, as amended, or by United 
States law. Through FY 2023, as set forth in the 2004 Fiscal Procedures 
Agreement, reasonable terms and conditions, including annual performance 
indicators that are necessary to ensure effective use of United States 
assistance and reasonable progress toward achieving program objectives, 
may be attached. In addition, through FY 2023, the Government of the 
United States may seek appropriate remedies for noncompliance with the 
terms and conditions attached to the assistance, or for failure to 
comply with section 234, including withholding assistance.
  
    (b) The Government of the United States shall, for each fiscal year 
of the twenty years during which assistance is to be provided on a 
sector grant basis under section 211(a), grant the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 
one half of the reasonable, properly documented cost incurred during 
such fiscal year to conduct the annual audit required under Article 
VIII(2) of the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement or (ii) $500,000. Such 
amount shall not be adjusted for inflation under section 218 or 
otherwise.
  
Section 214 - Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability 
Committee
  
    The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands shall establish a Joint Economic Management and 
Financial Accountability Committee. Through FY 2023, the Joint Economic 
Management and Financial Accountability Committee shall be governed as 
follows. The Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability 
Committee shall be composed of a U.S. chair, two other members from the 
Government of the United States and two members from the Government of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Joint Economic Management and 
Financial Accountability Committee shall meet at least once each year to 
review the audits and reports required under Article I of this Title and 
the 2004 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, evaluate

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-25]]

the progress made by the Republic of the Marshall Islands in meeting the 
objectives identified in its framework described in subsection (f) of 
section 211, with particular focus on those parts of the framework 
dealing with the sectors and areas identified in subsection (a) of 
section 211, identify problems encountered, and recommend ways to 
increase the effectiveness of U.S. assistance made available under this 
Title. The establishment and operations of the Joint Economic Management 
and Financial Accountability Committee shall be governed by the 2004 
Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
Section 215 - Annual Report
  
    Through FY 2023, the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands shall report annually to the President of the United States on 
the use of United States sector grant assistance and other assistance 
and progress in meeting mutually agreed program and economic goals. 
Through FY 2023, the Joint Economic Management and Financial 
Accountability Committee shall review and comment on the report and make 
appropriate recommendations based thereon.
  
Section 216 - Trust Fund
  
    (a) The Government of the United States shall contribute annually 
for twenty years in the amounts set forth in section 217 into a trust 
fund (``Trust Fund'') established in accordance with the Agreement 
Between the Government of the United States of America and the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Implementing Section 
216 and Section 217 of the Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund, 
done at Majuro on April 30, 2003 (``2003 Trust Fund Agreement'').
  
    (b) The United States contribution into the Trust Fund described in 
subsection (a) of this section is conditioned on the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands contributing to the Trust Fund at least 
$25 million, on the effective date of the 2003 Trust Fund Agreement or 
on October 1, 2003, whichever is later, $2.5 million prior to October 1, 
2004, and $2.5 million prior to October 1, 2005. Any funds received by 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands under section 111 (d) of PL 99-239 
(January 14, 1986), or successor provisions, would be contributed to the 
Trust Fund as a Republic of the Marshall Islands' contribution.
  
    (c) The terms regarding the investment and management of funds and 
use of the income of the Trust Fund shall be governed by the 2003 Trust 
Fund Agreement and shall apply for the duration of that agreement. 
Through FY 2023, funds derived from United States investment shall not 
be subject to federal or state taxes in the United States or any taxes 
in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The 2003 Trust Fund Agreement 
shall also provide for annual reports to the Government of the United 
States and to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-26]]

The 2003 Trust Fund Agreement shall provide for appropriate 
distributions of trust fund proceeds to the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands and for appropriate remedies for the failure of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands to use income of the Trust Fund for the annual 
grant purposes set forth in section 211. These remedies may include the 
return to the Government of the United States of the present market 
value of its contributions to the Trust Fund and the present market 
value of any undistributed income on the contributions of the Government 
of the United States.
  
Section 217 - Annual Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
  
    The funds described in sections 211, 212, 213(b), and 216 shall be 
made available as follows:
  

 
                                          (In millions of U.S. dollars)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Trust Fund       Kwajalein
                 FY                    Annual Grants     Audit Grant       Section     Impact Section    Total
                                        Section 211    Section 213(b)     216(a&c)           212
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2004                                            35.2              .5             7              15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005                                            34.7              .5             7.5            15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2006                                            34.2              .5             8              15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2007                                            33.7              .5             8.5            15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2008                                            33.2              .5             9              15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2009                                            32.7              .5             9.5            15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2010                                            32.2              .5            10              15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2011                                            31.7              .5            10.5            15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2012                                            31.2              .5            11              15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2013                                            30.7              .5            11.5            15.0       57.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2014                                            32.2              .5            12              18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2015                                            31.7              .5            12.5            18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2016                                            31.2              .5            13              18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2017                                            30.7              .5            13.5            18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2018                                            30.2              .5            14              18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2019                                            29.7              .5            14.5            18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2020                                            29.2              .5            15              18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2021                                            28.7              .5            15.5            18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2022                                            28.2              .5            16              18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2023                                            27.7              .5            16.5            18.0       62.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
Section 218 - Inflation Adjustment
  
    Except as otherwise provided, the amounts stated in Article I of 
this Title shall be adjusted for each United States fiscal year

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-27]]

by the percent that equals two-thirds of the percent change in the 
United States Gross Domestic Product Implicit Price Deflator, or 5 
percent, whichever is less in any one year, using the beginning of FY 
2004 as a base.
  
Section 219 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
  
    If in any year the funds made available by the Government of the 
United States for that year pursuant to this Article are not completely 
obligated by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
unobligated balances shall remain available in addition to the funds to 
be provided in subsequent years. Beginning in FY 2024, the carry-over of 
funds provided under sections 211(a) and 211(d) shall be governed by 
Article XI of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.''
  
  
2. Article II of Title Two of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced 
with the following:
  
  

                              ``Article II

                     Services and Program Assistance

  
Section 221
  
    (a) Services. The Government of the United States shall make 
available to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in 
accordance with and to the extent provided in the Federal Programs and 
Services Agreement referred to in section 231, the services and related 
programs of:
  
            (1) the United States Weather Service;

  
            (2) the United States Postal Service;

  
            (3) the United States Federal Aviation Administration;

  
            (4) the United States Department of Transportation;

  
            (5) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and

  
            (6) the Federal Emergency Management Agency of the 
        Department of Homeland Security and the United States Agency for 
        International Development.

  
                The United States Departments and Agencies named or 
                having responsibility to provide these services and 
                related programs shall have the authority to implement 
                the relevant provisions of the Federal Programs and 
                Services Agreement referred to in section 231.

  

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-28]]

    (b) Programs
  
            (1) Other than the services and programs covered by 
        subsection (a) of this section, and to the extent authorized by 
        the Congress of the United States, the Government of the United 
        States shall make available to the Government of the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands the services and programs that were 
        available to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands on May 1, 2004, to the extent that such services and 
        programs continue to be available to State and local governments 
        of the United States.

  
            (2) Unless provided otherwise by United States law, the 
        services and programs described in paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection shall be extended in accordance with the terms of the 
        Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 
        231.

  
    (c) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise such 
authority as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this 
Title and the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in 
section 231, including the authority to monitor and administer all 
service and program assistance provided by the Government of the United 
States to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
  
    (d) Except as provided elsewhere in this Compact, as amended, under 
any separate agreement entered into under this Compact, as amended, or 
otherwise under United States law, all federal domestic programs 
extended to or operating in the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall 
be subject to all applicable criteria, standards, reporting 
requirements, auditing procedures, and other rules and regulations 
applicable to such programs and services when operating in the United 
States.
  
    (e) The Government of the United States may make available to the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands alternate energy 
development projects, studies, and conservation measures to the extent 
provided for the Freely Associated States in the laws of the United 
States.
  
Section 222
  
    The Government of the United States and the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands may decide from time to time to extend 
to the Republic of the Marshall Islands additional United States grant 
assistance, services, and programs, as provided under the laws of the 
United States. Unless inconsistent with such laws, or otherwise 
specifically precluded by the Government of the United States at the 
time such additional grant assistance, services, or programs are 
extended, the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in 
section 231 shall apply to any such assistance, services, or programs.
  

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-29]]

Section 223
  
    The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall make 
available to the Government of the United States at no cost facilities 
and areas in the Republic of the Marshall Islands as may be necessary 
for the operations of the services and programs provided pursuant to 
this Article and set forth in the Federal Programs and Services 
Agreement referred to in section 231, or as may be mutually agreed 
thereafter.
  
Section 224
  
    The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may request, 
from time to time, technical assistance from the federal agencies and 
institutions of the Government of the United States, which are 
authorized to grant such technical assistance in accordance with United 
States laws. If technical assistance is granted pursuant to such a 
request, the Government of the United States shall provide the technical 
assistance in a manner which gives priority consideration to the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands over other recipients not a part of the 
United States, its territories or possessions, and equivalent 
consideration to the Republic of the Marshall Islands with respect to 
other states in Free Association with the United States. Such assistance 
shall be made available on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis to 
the extent provided by United States law.''
  
  
3. Article III of Title Two of the Compact, as Amended shall be replaced 
with the following:
  
  

                              ``Article III

                        Administrative Provisions

Section 231
  
    The specific nature, extent, and contractual arrangements of the 
services and programs provided for in section 221 of this Compact, as 
amended, as well as the legal status of agencies of the Government of 
the United States, their civilian employees and contractors, and the 
dependents of such personnel while present in the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands, and other arrangements in connection with the 
assistance, services, or programs furnished by the Government of the 
United States, are set forth in a Federal Programs and Services 
Agreement.
  
Section 232
  
    The Government of the United States, in consultation with the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, shall determine and 
implement procedures for audits, as appropriate, of all grants and other 
assistance provided under Article I and Article VI of this Title and of 
all funds expended for the services and programs provided under Article 
II of this Title.
  

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-30]]

Section 233
  
    The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pledges to 
cooperate with, permit, and assist if reasonably requested, designated 
and authorized representatives of the Government of the United States 
charged with investigating whether Compact funds, or any other 
assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended, have been, or are 
being, used for purposes other than those set forth in this Compact, as 
amended, or its subsidiary agreements. In carrying out this 
investigative authority, such United States Government representatives 
may request that the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
subpoena documents and records and compel testimony in accordance with 
the laws and Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Such 
assistance by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to 
the Government of the United States shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
The obligation of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
to fulfill its pledge herein is a condition to its receiving payment of 
such funds or other assistance authorized under this Compact, as 
amended. The Government of the United States shall pay any reasonable 
costs for extraordinary services executed by the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands in carrying out the provisions of this 
section.''
  
  
4. A new Article VI shall be added at the end of Title Two of the 
Compact, as Amended and shall read as follows:
  
  

                              ``Article VI

            Continued Economic Assistance and Accountability

  
Section 261 - Grants
  
    (a) Sector Grants. The Government of the United States shall provide 
assistance on a sector grant basis as set forth in section 266, subject 
to the provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement. These sector 
grants shall be used for assistance in the sectors of education, health 
care, private sector development, public sector capacity building, the 
environment, public infrastructure, enhanced reporting and 
accountability, and Enewetak development, or for other sectors as 
mutually decided. The Government of the United States shall monitor the 
use of such sector grants in accordance with the provisions of this 
Article and the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
            (1) Education. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to support and improve the educational system of the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands and develop the human, 
        financial, and material resources necessary for the Government 
        of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to perform these 
        services. Emphasis

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-31]]

        should be placed on advancing a quality basic education system.

  
            (2) Health. United States grant assistance under subsection 
        (a) of this section shall be made available in accordance with 
        the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support 
        and improve the delivery of preventive, curative, and 
        environmental care and to develop the human, financial, and 
        material resources necessary for the Government of the Republic 
        of the Marshall Islands to perform these services.

  
            (3) Private Sector Development. United States grant 
        assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with the plan described in subsection 
        (c) of this section to support the efforts of the Government of 
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands to attract foreign 
        investment and increase indigenous business activity by 
        vitalizing the commercial environment, ensuring fair and 
        equitable application of the law, respecting and promoting 
        internationally recognized fundamental rights at work, 
        maintaining progress toward privatization of state-owned and 
        partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging in other 
        reforms.

  
            (4) Capacity Building in the Public Sector. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the plan described in 
        subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the 
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to build 
        effective, accountable, and transparent national, state, and 
        local government and other public sector institutions and 
        systems.

  
            (5) Environment. United States grant assistance under 
        subsection (a) of this section shall be made available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to increase environmental protection; establish and 
        manage conservation areas; engage in environmental 
        infrastructure planning, design, construction, and operation; 
        and to involve the citizens of the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands in the process of conserving their country's natural 
        resources.

  
            (6) Public Infrastructure. United States annual grant 
        assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be made 
        available in accordance with the plan described in subsection 
        (c) of this section and for projects included in the plan 
        described in Article VII(2) of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
        Agreement to assist the Government of the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands in its efforts to provide adequate public 
        infrastructure.

  
            (7) Enhanced Reporting and Accountability. United States 
        grant assistance under subsection (a) of this section shall be 
        made available in accordance with the plan described in 
        subsection (c) of this section to support

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-32]]

        the efforts of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands to address the costs of compliance inherent in 
        implementing its obligations with respect to sector grant 
        assistance.

  
            (8) Enewetak Development. United States grant assistance 
        under subsection (a) of this section shall be available in 
        accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this 
        section to support measures and activities related to 
        development programs for Enewetak, which due to its location and 
        lack of arable land would particularly benefit from assistance 
        with procurement, storage, transportation, administration, and 
        provision of food items.

  
    (b) Infrastructure Maintenance Fund. Beginning in FY 2024, 
contributions to and administration of the Infrastructure Maintenance 
Fund shall be governed by the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
    (c) Budget and Investment Framework. Beginning in the fiscal year 
after which the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement enters into force, the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall prepare and 
maintain an official medium-term budget and investment framework. The 
framework shall be strategic in nature, shall be continuously reviewed 
and updated through the annual budget process, and shall make 
projections on a multi-year rolling basis. Each of the sectors named in 
subsection (a) of this section, or other sectors as mutually decided, as 
well as the assistance described in section 211(b) and the funds 
described in section 261(b), section 261(g), section 261(h), and section 
261(i), shall be accorded specific treatment in the plan. Those portions 
of the framework that contemplate the use of United States grant funds 
provided under section 211(b), section 261(a), section 261(b), section 
261(e), section 261(f), section 261(g), section 261(h), and section 
261(i) shall require the concurrence of the Joint Economic Management 
and Financial Accountability Committee, as set forth in the 2023 Fiscal 
Procedures Agreement.
  
    (d) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. Beginning in FY 2024, the 
Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands shall provide amounts to the DAEF from the amounts 
made available for Sector Grants as set forth in section 266 and to the 
extent provided in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement. 
Beginning in FY 2024, any funds from the DAEF may be used only for 
assistance and rehabilitation resulting from disasters and emergencies, 
or for disaster preparedness activities. Beginning in FY 2024, the DAEF 
shall be subject to relevant provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
Agreement and the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in 
section 231.
  
    (e) Additional Education Assistance. Beginning in FY 2024, the 
Government of the United States shall make available,

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-33]]

subject to the provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, $22 
million in grant assistance for additional sector grants for education 
to be used specifically for education and job-training programs.
  
    (f) Additional Environment Assistance. Beginning in FY 2024, the 
Government of the United States shall make available, subject to the 
provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, $30 million in grant 
assistance for additional sector grants for environment, $20 million of 
which must be used for environmental feasibility studies and technical 
assistance and $10 million of which must be used for future 
environmental programs.
  
    (g) U.S. Supplemental Health Fund and Joint Health Dialogue.
  
            (1) In FY 2024, the Government of the United States shall 
        make available $20 million in grant assistance to deposit into a 
        fund (the ``U.S. Supplemental Health Fund'') to support the 
        efforts of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands to improve health outcomes in the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands. Such assistance may only be used for the 
        purpose of implementing programs recommended by a joint health 
        dialogue (the ``Joint Health Dialogue'') to be established 
        pursuant to and governed by the provisions of the 2023 Fiscal 
        Procedures Agreement.

  
            (2) From FY 2024 through FY 2043, the Government of the 
        United States shall make available up to $8 million in annual 
        grant assistance to deposit into the U.S. Supplemental Health 
        Fund, subject to the provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
        Agreement. Such assistance may only be used for the purpose of 
        implementing health programs mutually decided in writing by the 
        Government of the United States and the Government of the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands, which may include programs 
        recommended by the Joint Health Dialogue.

  
            (3) The U.S. Supplemental Health Fund is subject to the 
        provisions of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.

  
    (h) Climate Fund and Working Group. In FY 2024, the Government of 
the United States shall make available $20 million in grant assistance 
to deposit into a fund (the ``Climate Fund'') to obtain additional 
assistance to better enable the Republic of the Marshall Islands to cope 
with challenges from climate impacts, including sea-level rise and other 
environmental challenges that could threaten the existence of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Climate Fund may only be used to 
obtain such additional assistance for climate needs through ways that 
are identified by a joint climate working group (the ``Climate Working 
Group'') to be established pursuant to and governed by the provisions of 
the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, and that are mutually decided in 
writing by the Government of the

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-34]]

United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands. The Climate Fund is subject to the provisions of the 2023 
Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
    (i) Kwajalein Development Plan Fund. In FY 2024, the Government of 
the United States shall make available $132 million in grant assistance 
to deposit into a fund (the ``Kwajalein Development Plan Fund'') for 
projects described in the plan adopted in March 2022 by the Government 
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to facilitate resilience and 
healthy communities throughout Kwajalein Atoll, or, subject to the 
mutual written decision of the Signatory Governments, a successor plan. 
The Kwajalein Development Plan Fund shall be subject to the provisions 
of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
  
    (j) Nuclear Testing Transparency and Museum. Beginning in FY 2024, 
the Government of the United States shall make available to such entity 
or entities as selected by mutual decision of the Government of the 
United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands, to be available until expended, $10 million in grant assistance 
to improve the accessibility of documents and information previously 
provided to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands 
relating to the United States nuclear testing program, including waste 
disposal, in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. In addition, 
beginning in FY 2024, the Government of the United States shall make 
available to the College of the Marshall Islands or another entity or 
entities as selected by mutual decision of the Government of the United 
States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, to be 
available until expended, $5 million in grant assistance to support 
efforts by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 
including its National Nuclear Commission, to establish a museum and 
research facility on the United States nuclear testing program. The 
Government of the United States may attach any terms and conditions to 
such assistance.
  
Section 262 - Accountability
  
    (a) The 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement shall apply to grant 
assistance described in section 261(a), section 261(b), section 261(d), 
section 261(e), section 261(f), section 261(g), section 261(h), and 
section 261(i); grant assistance provided under section 211(b) made in 
FY 2024 or later; and grant assistance provided under section 221 made 
in FY 2024 or later, except as modified in the Federal Programs and 
Services Agreement or by United States law. Beginning in FY 2024, and 
consistent with the 2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement, the Government of 
the United States may attach reasonable terms and conditions to any 
United States assistance provided under this Article and may seek 
appropriate remedies for noncompliance with such terms and conditions or 
for failure to comply with section 234, including the withholding of 
such assistance.
  

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-35]]

    (b) The cost of the annual audit required under Article X(2) of the 
2023 Fiscal Procedures Agreement shall be borne by the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and may be paid for from the amounts 
made available for sector grants described in section 261(a).
  
Section 263 - Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability 
Committee
  
    Beginning in FY 2024, the Joint Economic Management and Financial 
Accountability Committee shall be governed by the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
Agreement and shall be composed of a U.S. chairperson, one other member 
from the Government of the United States, and two members from the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
  
Section 264 - Biennial Report
  
    Beginning in FY 2024, and every two years thereafter until two years 
after all grants provided to the Government of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands under Article I and Article VI of this Title are closed 
out, the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall report 
to the President of the United States on the use of such assistance and 
other assistance provided by the Government of the United States during 
the previous two fiscal years, and on the progress of the Government of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands in meeting program and economic 
goals. The Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability 
Committee shall review and comment on the report and make appropriate 
recommendations based thereon.
  
Section 265 - Trust Fund
  
    (a) The Government of the United States shall contribute the amounts 
set forth in section 266 to the Trust Fund to be used in accordance with 
the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and 
the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding the 
Compact Trust Fund, done at Honolulu on October 16, 2023 (``2023 Trust 
Fund Agreement'').
  
    (b) Upon its entry into force, the 2023 Trust Fund Agreement, or any 
successor agreement, shall govern the Trust Fund and all contributions 
made pursuant to this Title and shall provide for:
  
            (1) Exemption from federal and state taxes in the United 
        States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands of all funds 
        derived from the United States investment;

  
            (2) Annual reports to the Government of the United States 
        and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands;

  
            (3) Distributions from the Trust Fund to provide the 
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-36]]

        with sources of revenue to help meet needs of people in the 
        Republic of the Marshall Islands;

  
            (4) Fiscal procedures that are sufficient to provide 
        oversight of the Trust Fund, including for expending of and 
        accounting for distributions, and to ensure that distributions 
        are used for the purposes described in the 2023 Trust Fund 
        Agreement;

  
            (5) A Trust Fund Committee composed of three voting members 
        appointed by the Government of the United States, to include the 
        chair of the Trust Fund Committee, two voting members appointed 
        by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
        one voting member appointed by Taiwan; and

  
            (6) Appropriate remedies for the gross failure of the 
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to use Trust 
        Fund distributions in accordance with the 2023 Trust Fund 
        Agreement, to include the return to the Government of the United 
        States of the present market value of its contributions to the 
        Trust Fund and the present market value of any undistributed 
        income derived therefrom.

  
    (c) If this Compact, as amended, is terminated, the provisions of 
sections 451 through 453 of this Compact, as amended, shall govern the 
treatment of any United States contributions to the Trust Fund and any 
undistributed income derived therefrom.
  
Section 266 - Sector Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
  
    The funds described in sections 261(a) and 265 shall be made 
available as follows:

 
                                         (In thousands of U.S. dollars)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       Sector Grants       Trust Fund (Section
                        FY                            (Section 261(a))             265)               Total
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2024                                                             50,000                200,000          250,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2025                                                             51,000                200,000          251,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2026                                                             52,020                200,000          252,020
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2027                                                             53,060                100,000          153,060
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2028                                                             54,122                     --           54,122
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2029                                                             55,204                     --           55,204
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2030                                                             56,308                     --           56,308
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2031                                                             57,434                     --           57,434
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2032                                                             58,583                     --           58,583
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2033                                                             59,755                     --           59,755
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2034                                                             60,950                     --           60,950
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-37]]

 
2035                                                             62,169                     --           62,169
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2036                                                             63,412                     --           63,412
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2037                                                             64,680                     --           64,680
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2038                                                             65,974                     --           65,974
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2039                                                             67,293                     --           67,293
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2040                                                             68,639                     --           68,639
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2041                                                             70,012                     --           70,012
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2042                                                             71,412                     --           71,412
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2043                                                             72,841                     --           72,841
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
Section 267 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
  
    All funds made available under this Article shall be available until 
expended. The carry-over of unused funds made available under this 
Article shall be governed by Article XI of the 2023 Fiscal Procedures 
Agreement.''
 
 
Part 2. Title Four Amendments
 
 
Article V of Title Four of the Compact, as Amended shall be amended as 
follows:
 
    a. The word ``twentieth'' shall be replaced with the word 
``fortieth'';
 
    b. ``Trust Fund Agreement'' shall be replaced with ``2023 Trust Fund 
Agreement'';
 
    c. In Sections 451(b), 452(b), and 453(c), ``section 216'' shall be 
replaced with ``section 265''; and
 
    d. In Sections 451(c), 452(c), and 453(d), ``section 216'' shall be 
replaced with ``section 216 and section 265''.
 
 
Part 3. Final Provisions
 
 
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later note 
in an exchange of notes between the Signatory Governments indicating 
that each Signatory Government has completed its internal procedures for 
entry into force.
 
2. The Signatory Governments may mutually agree to continue the 
provision of sector grants and federal programs and services beyond 
fiscal year 2043 at the same levels and subject to similar

[[Page 138 STAT. 452A-38]]

favorable terms identified in the amendments described in Part 1 of this 
Agreement and the Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation 
of United States Economic Assistance Provided in the 2023 Amended 
Compact Between the Government of the United States of America and the 
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, done at Honolulu on 
October 16, 2023.
 
3. Prior to fiscal year 2044 and every 20 years thereafter, the 
Signatory Governments shall conduct joint reviews of the needs of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and its progress in meeting development 
objectives.
 
4. Nothing in this Agreement affects or otherwise alters the agreement 
referred to in Section 462(a)(1) of the Compact, as Amended.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their 
respective governments, have signed this Agreement.
 
 
DONE at Honolulu, on October 16, 2023, in duplicate, in the English 
language.

 
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF                                                 FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES                                                     THE REPUBLIC OF THE
OF AMERICA:                                                           MARSHALL ISLANDS:
 
JOSEPH Y. YUN                                                         JACK ADING