Public Law 116-93
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
    30, 2020, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2019 -  [H.R. 
                                1158]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2020''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Explanatory statement.
Sec. 5. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 6. Availability of funds.

       DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

Title I--Military Personnel
Title II--Operation and Maintenance
Title III--Procurement
Title IV--Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
Title V--Revolving and Management Funds
Title VI--Other Department of Defense Programs
Title VII--Related Agencies
Title VIII--General Provisions
Title IX--Overseas Contingency Operations
Title X--Natural Disaster Relief

      DIVISION B--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

Title I--Department of Commerce
Title II--Department of Justice
Title III--Science
Title IV--Related Agencies
Title V--General Provisions

  DIVISION C--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                                ACT, 2020

Title I--Department of the Treasury
Title II--Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriated to 
           the President
Title III--The Judiciary
Title IV--District of Columbia
Title V--Independent Agencies
Title VI--General Provisions--This Act
Title VII--General Provisions--Government-wide
Title VIII--General Provisions--District of Columbia

  DIVISION D--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

Title I--Departmental Management, Operations, Intelligence, and 
           Oversight

[[Page 133 STAT. 2318]]

Title II--Security, Enforcement, and Investigations
Title III--Protection, Preparedness, Response, and Recovery
Title IV--Research, Development, Training, and Services
Title V--General Provisions

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 1 USC 1 note.>>  REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.

    The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in the House 
section of the Congressional Record on or about December 17, 2019, and 
submitted by the Chairwoman of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House, shall have the same effect with respect to the allocation of 
funds and implementation of divisions A through D of this Act as if it 
were a joint explanatory statement of a committee of conference.
SEC. 5. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020.
SEC. 6. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.

    (a) Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be 
available (or rescinded, if applicable) only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.
    (b) Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) only if the 
President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2020.>>  A--
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

                                 TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Army on active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $42,746,972,000.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2319]]

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Navy on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $31,710,431,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Marine Corps on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided 
for elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 
97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund, $14,098,666,000.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Air Force on active duty (except members of reserve components 
provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the 
Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 
156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $31,239,149,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 10211, 10302, and 7038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, $4,922,087,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on 
active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section

[[Page 133 STAT. 2320]]

12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$2,115,997,000.

                     Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) 
of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, 
or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the 
Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses authorized by section 
16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $833,604,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 of title 10, United States Code, 
or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in 
section 12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other 
duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $2,014,190,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under sections 10211, 10302, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of 
title 32, United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 
12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$8,704,320,000.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
sections 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or

[[Page 133 STAT. 2321]]

other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United 
States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund, $4,060,651,000.

                                TITLE II

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law, 
$39,597,083,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $12,478,000 can be used 
for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the 
approval or authority of the Secretary of the Army, and payments may be 
made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law, $47,622,510,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$15,055,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to 
be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, 
and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law, 
$7,868,468,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law, 
$42,736,365,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,699,000 can be used 
for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the 
approval or authority of the Secretary of the Air Force, and payments 
may be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Space Force

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Space Force, as authorized by law, 
$40,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law, 
$37,491,073,000:  Provided, That not more than $6,859,000 may be used 
for the Combatant Commander Initiative

[[Page 133 STAT. 2322]]

Fund authorized under section 166a of title 10, United States Code:  
Provided further, That not to exceed $36,000,000 can be used for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Secretary of Defense, and payments may be made on 
his certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this heading, not 
less than $44,500,000 shall be made available for the Procurement 
Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program, of which not less 
than $4,500,000 shall be available for centers defined in 10 U.S.C. 
2411(1)(D):  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to plan or implement 
the consolidation of a budget or appropriations liaison office of the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense, the office of the Secretary of a 
military department, or the service headquarters of one of the Armed 
Forces into a legislative affairs or legislative liaison office:  
Provided further, That $17,732,000, to remain available until expended, 
is available only for expenses relating to certain classified 
activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the Secretary of 
Defense to operation and maintenance appropriations or research, 
development, test and evaluation appropriations, to be merged with and 
to be available for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred:  Provided further, That any ceiling on the investment item 
unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation and maintenance 
funds shall not apply to the funds described in the preceding proviso:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this heading, 
$643,073,000, of which $160,768,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021, shall be available to provide support and assistance to 
foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to conduct, 
support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or other 
Department of Defense security cooperation programs:  Provided further, 
That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition 
to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the 
dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications, $2,984,494,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the 
dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications, $1,102,616,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities

[[Page 133 STAT. 2323]]

and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and 
transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, 
supplies, and equipment; and communications, $289,076,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $3,227,318,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized by 
law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft), $7,461,947,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Air 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; transportation of things, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; supplying and equipping the Air National 
Guard, as authorized by law; expenses for repair, modification, 
maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment, including those 
furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department of 
Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same basis as 
authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on active Federal 
duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting units in 
compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when specifically 
authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau, $6,655,292,000.

           United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces, $14,771,000, of which not to exceed $5,000 
may be used for official representation purposes.

                     Environmental Restoration, Army

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  the Department of the Army, 
$251,700,000, to remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2324]]

Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required for 
environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, 
removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of the Army, or 
for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of the Army, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes 
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: 
 Provided further, That upon a determination that all or part of the 
funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the 
purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided elsewhere in this Act.

                     Environmental Restoration, Navy

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  the Department of the Navy, 
$385,000,000, to remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Navy shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made 
available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available 
to the Department of the Navy, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that all 
or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  the Department of the Air Force, 
$485,000,000, to remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of the Air Force, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds 
made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made 
available to the Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2325]]

                 Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  the Department of Defense, 
$19,002,000, to remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the 
Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made 
available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available 
to the Department of Defense, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that all 
or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Determinations.>>  the Department of the Army, 
$275,000,000, to remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are 
required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of 
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at sites 
formerly used by the Department of Defense, transfer the funds made 
available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available 
to the Department of the Army, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that all 
or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense (consisting of the 
programs provided under sections 401, 402, 404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of 
title 10, United States Code), $135,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                  Cooperative Threat Reduction Account

    For assistance, including assistance provided by contract or by 
grants, under programs and activities of the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authorized under the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act, $373,700,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2326]]

      Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund

    For the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
Fund, $400,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That no other amounts may be otherwise credited or 
transferred to the Fund, or deposited into the Fund, in fiscal year 2020 
pursuant to section 1705(d) of title 10, United States Code.

                                TITLE III

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $3,771,329,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $2,995,673,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
other

[[Page 133 STAT. 2327]]

expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $4,663,597,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition 
facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $2,578,575,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked combat vehicles; 
the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; 
communications and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare 
parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $7,581,524,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public and 
private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such lands 
and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
$19,605,513,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022.

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and related support 
equipment including spare parts, and accessories therefor; expansion of 
public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2328]]

machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government 
and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $4,017,470,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition 
facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $843,401,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                    Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and armament 
thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and installation 
thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long lead 
time components and designs for vessels to be constructed or converted 
in the future; and expansion of public and private plants, including 
land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title, as follows:
            Ohio Replacement Submarine (AP), $1,820,927,000;
            Carrier Replacement Program (CVN-80), $1,062,000,000;
            Carrier Replacement Program (CVN-81), $1,214,500,000;
            Virginia Class Submarine, $5,365,181,000;
            Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $2,969,552,000;
            CVN Refueling Overhauls, $634,626,000;
            CVN Refueling Overhauls (AP), $16,900,000;
            DDG-1000 Program, $155,944,000;
            DDG-51 Destroyer, $5,065,295,000;
            DDG-51 Destroyer (AP), $744,028,000;
            FFG-Frigate, $1,281,177,000;
            LPD Flight II, $524,100,000;
            LHA Replacement, $650,000,000;
            Expeditionary Fast Transport, $261,000,000;
            TAO Fleet Oiler, $981,215,000;
            TAO Fleet Oiler (AP), $73,000,000;
            Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship, $150,282,000;
            LCU 1700, $83,670,000;
            Ship to Shore Connector, $65,000,000;
            Service Craft, $56,289,000;
            For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first 
        destination transportation, $695,992,000; and
            Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs, 
        $104,700,000.

    In all: $23,975,378,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2024:  Provided, That additional obligations may

[[Page 133 STAT. 2329]]

be incurred after September 30, 2024, for engineering services, tests, 
evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the 
final stage of ship construction:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Vessels.>>  none of the funds provided under this heading 
for the construction or conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed 
in shipyards in the United States shall be expended in foreign 
facilities for the construction of major components of such vessel:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Vessels.>>  none of the funds provided 
under this heading shall be used for the construction of any naval 
vessel in foreign shipyards:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act for Ohio Replacement Submarine 
(AP) may be available for the purposes authorized by subsections (f), 
(g), (h) or (i) of section 2218a of title 10, United States Code, only 
in accordance with the provisions of the applicable subsection:  
Provided further, That an appropriation made under the heading 
``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' provided for the purpose of 
``Program increase--advance procurement for fiscal year 2020 LPD Flight 
II and/or multiyear procurement economic order quantity'' shall be 
considered to be for the purpose of ``Program increase--advance 
procurement of LPD-31''.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except ordnance 
for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for conversion); the 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of 
public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway, $10,075,257,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That such funds are also available 
for the maintenance, repair, and modernization of Pacific Fleet ships 
under a pilot program established for such purposes.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, and 
accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools, 
and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the 
Marine Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only; and expansion of public and private plants, including 
land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title, $2,898,422,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories

[[Page 133 STAT. 2330]]

therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things, $17,512,361,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,575,890,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of spacecraft, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,353,383,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2022.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition 
facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $1,625,661,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2331]]

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway, $21,410,021,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments) necessary for procurement, 
production, and modification of equipment, supplies, materials, and 
spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and 
private plants, equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, 
$5,332,147,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2022.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to sections 
108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $64,393,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $12,543,435,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2021.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $20,155,115,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated in this paragraph

[[Page 133 STAT. 2332]]

which are available for the V-22 may be used to meet unique operational 
requirements of the Special Operations Forces.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $45,566,955,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2021.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), necessary for basic and applied 
scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced research 
projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary of 
Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment, $25,938,027,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2021.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, 
in the direction and supervision of operational test and evaluation, 
including initial operational test and evaluation which is conducted 
prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint operational 
testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
therewith, $227,700,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2021.

                                 TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,564,211,000.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense as authorized by law, 
$34,074,119,000; of which $31,321,665,000, shall be for operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed one percent shall remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2021, and of which up to 
$15,262,668,000 may be available for contracts entered into under the 
TRICARE program; of which $446,359,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2022, shall be for procurement; and of 
which $2,306,095,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2021, shall be for research, development, test and evaluation:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any

[[Page 133 STAT. 2333]]

other provision of law, of the amount made available under this heading 
for research, development, test and evaluation, not less than $8,000,000 
shall be available for HIV prevention educational activities undertaken 
in connection with United States military training, exercises, and 
humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in African 
nations:  Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not less than 
$1,383,500,000 shall be made available to the United States Army Medical 
Research and Development Command to carry out the congressionally 
directed medical research programs:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the Congressional defense committees quarterly reports on the current 
status of the deployment of the electronic health record:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline. Time period.>> That the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide notice to the Congressional defense 
committees not later than ten business days after delaying the proposed 
timeline of such deployment if such delay is longer than one week:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reviews.>> the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall perform quarterly performance reviews of such 
deployment.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents and 
munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $985,499,000, of which $107,351,000 shall be 
for operation and maintenance, of which no less than $52,452,000 shall 
be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program, consisting 
of $22,444,000 for activities on military installations and $30,008,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021, to assist State and local 
governments; $2,218,000 shall be for procurement, to remain available 
until September 30, 2022, of which not less than $2,218,000 shall be for 
the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program to assist State 
and local governments; and $875,930,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, shall be for research, development, test and 
evaluation, of which $869,430,000 shall only be for the Assembled 
Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
operation and maintenance; for procurement; and for research, 
development, test and evaluation, $893,059,000, of which $522,171,000 
shall be for counter-narcotics support; $124,922,000 shall be for the 
drug demand reduction program; $220,595,000 shall be for the National 
Guard counter-drug program; and $25,371,000 shall be for the National 
Guard counter-drug schools program:  Provided, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for obligation for 
the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation to 
which transferred:

[[Page 133 STAT. 2334]]

 Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are 
not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $363,499,000, of which $360,201,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $700,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval or 
authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on the 
Inspector General's certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes; of which $333,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2022, shall be for procurement; and of which $2,965,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for research, 
development, test and evaluation.

                                TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

    Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding level for 
continuing the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
and Disability System, $514,000,000.

                Intelligence Community Management Account

    For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community Management 
Account, $556,000,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8002.  <<NOTE: 10 USC 1584 note.>>  During the current fiscal 
year, provisions of law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or 
employment of, any person not a citizen of the United States shall not 
apply to personnel of the Department of Defense:  Provided, That salary 
increases granted to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees 
of the Department of Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host 
nation to its own employees, whichever is higher:  Provided further, 
That this section shall not

[[Page 133 STAT. 2335]]

apply to Department of Defense foreign service national employees 
serving at United States diplomatic missions whose pay is set by the 
Department of State under the Foreign Service Act of 1980:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Turkey.>>  That the limitations of this provision shall 
not apply to foreign national employees of the Department of Defense in 
the Republic of Turkey.

    Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004.  <<NOTE: Time period.>>  No more than 20 percent of the 
appropriations in this Act which are limited for obligation during the 
current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the 
fiscal year:  Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations 
for support of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp 
training of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8005.  <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon determination by the 
Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
interest, he may, with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget, transfer not to exceed $4,000,000,000 of working capital funds 
of the Department of Defense or funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Defense for military functions (except military 
construction) between such appropriations or funds or any subdivision 
thereof, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, 
and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to which 
transferred:  Provided, That such authority to transfer may not be used 
unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen military 
requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and in no 
case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the 
Congress:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  the Secretary 
of Defense shall notify the Congress promptly of all transfers made 
pursuant to this authority or any other authority in this Act:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reprogramming requests.>>  That no part of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to prepare or present a request to the 
Committees on Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item 
for which reprogramming is requested has been denied by the Congress:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That a request for multiple 
reprogrammings of funds using authority provided in this section shall 
be made prior to June 30, 2020:  Provided further, That transfers among 
military personnel appropriations shall not be taken into account for 
purposes of the limitation on the amount of funds that may be 
transferred under this section.

    Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific programs, 
projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts and adjustments to 
budget activities corresponding to such programs, projects, and 
activities) contained in the tables titled Explanation of Project Level 
Adjustments in the explanatory statement regarding this Act, the 
obligation and expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act for those programs, projects, and activities for 
which the amounts appropriated exceed the amounts requested are hereby 
required by law to be carried out in the manner provided by such tables 
to the same extent as if the tables were included in the text of this 
Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2336]]

    (b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in 
subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of appropriations 
for purposes of section 8005 of this Act:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That section 8005 shall apply when 
transfers of the amounts described in subsection (a) occur between 
appropriation accounts.

    Sec. 8007. <<NOTE: Reports.>> (a) Not later than 60 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense shall submit a report 
to the congressional defense committees to establish the baseline for 
application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 
2020:  Provided, That the report shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
        display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by budget activity and program, project, and activity as 
        detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

    (b) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Notwithstanding section 8005 of this 
Act, none of the funds provided in this Act shall be available for 
reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in subsection (a) 
is submitted to the congressional defense committees, unless the 
Secretary of Defense certifies in writing to the congressional defense 
committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an 
emergency requirement:  Provided, That this subsection shall not apply 
to transfers from the following appropriations accounts:
            (1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army'';
            (2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy'';
            (3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force'';
            (4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide'';
            (5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
        Sites''; and
            (6) ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities, 
        Defense''.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances in working 
capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant to 
section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in only 
such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be 
made from such funds:  Provided, That 
transfers <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> may be made between 
such funds:  Provided further, That transfers may be made between 
working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'' 
appropriation and the ``Operation and Maintenance'' appropriation 
accounts in such amounts as may be determined by the Secretary of 
Defense, with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget, 
except that such transfers may not be made unless the Secretary of 
Defense has notified the Congress of the proposed transfer:  Provided 
further, That except <<NOTE: Notification.>>  in amounts equal to the 
amounts appropriated to working capital funds in this Act, no 
obligations may be made against a working capital fund to procure or 
increase the value of war reserve material inventory, unless the 
Secretary of Defense has notified the Congress prior to any such 
obligation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2337]]

    Sec. 8009. <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>   Funds appropriated by 
this Act may not be used to initiate a special access program without 
prior notification 30 calendar days in advance to the congressional 
defense committees.

    Sec. 8010.  <<NOTE: Contracts. Notifications. Deadlines. 10 USC 
2306b note.>>  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be available 
to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic order 
quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of the 
contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in excess of 
$20,000,000; or (2) a contract for advance procurement leading to a 
multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in 
excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the congressional defense 
committees have been notified at least 30 days in advance of the 
proposed contract award:  Provided, That no part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be available to initiate a multiyear 
contract for which the economic order quantity advance procurement is 
not funded at least to the limits of the Government's liability:  
Provided further, That no part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement contracts for 
any systems or component thereof if the value of the multiyear contract 
would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That no multiyear procurement contract can be 
terminated without 30-day prior notification to the congressional 
defense committees:  Provided further, That the execution of multiyear 
authority shall require the use of a present value analysis to determine 
lowest cost compared to an annual procurement:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this Act may be used for a multiyear 
contract executed after the date of the enactment of this Act unless in 
the case of any such contract--
            (1) the <<NOTE: Budget request.>>  Secretary of Defense has 
        submitted to Congress a budget request for full funding of units 
        to be procured through the contract and, in the case of a 
        contract for procurement of aircraft, that includes, for any 
        aircraft unit to be procured through the contract for which 
        procurement funds are requested in that budget request for 
        production beyond advance procurement activities in the fiscal 
        year covered by the budget, full funding of procurement of such 
        unit in that fiscal year;
            (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include 
        consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the contractor 
        associated with the production of unfunded units to be delivered 
        under the contract;
            (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor 
        under the contract shall not be made in advance of incurred 
        costs on funded units; and
            (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment 
        based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.

    Sec. 8011. <<NOTE: Humanitarian assistance. Territories.>>  Within 
the funds appropriated for the operation and maintenance of the Armed 
Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 
10, United States Code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs 
under chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code. <<NOTE: Reports.>> Such funds may also be obligated for 
humanitarian and civic assistance costs incidental to authorized 
operations and pursuant to authority granted in section 401 of chapter 
20 of title 10, United States Code, and these obligations shall be 
reported as required by section 401(d) of title 10, United States Code:  
Provided, That funds available for operation and maintenance shall be 
available for providing humanitarian and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2338]]

similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the Trust Territories 
of the Pacific Islands and freely associated states of Micronesia, 
pursuant to the Compact of Free Association as authorized by Public Law 
99-239:  Provided further, That upon <<NOTE: Determination. Hawaii.>>  a 
determination by the Secretary of the Army that such action is 
beneficial for graduate medical education programs conducted at Army 
medical facilities located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may 
authorize the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for 
civilian patients from American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.

    Sec. 8012. (a) During the current fiscal year, the civilian 
personnel of the Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis 
of any end-strength, and the management of such personnel during that 
fiscal year shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known 
as an end-strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed 
on the last day of such fiscal year.
    (b) <<NOTE: Budget request. Effective date.>>  The fiscal year 2021 
budget request for the Department of Defense as well as all 
justification material and other documentation supporting the fiscal 
year 2021 Department of Defense budget request shall be prepared and 
submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) and (b) of this 
provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 2021.

    (c) As required by section 1107 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 
2358 note) civilian personnel at the Department of Army Science and 
Technology Reinvention Laboratories may not be managed on the basis of 
the Table of Distribution and Allowances, and the management of the 
workforce strength shall be done in a manner consistent with the budget 
available with respect to such Laboratories.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to military 
(civilian) technicians.
    Sec. 8013.  <<NOTE: Lobbying.>>  None of the funds made available by 
this Act shall be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
congressional action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending 
before the Congress.

    Sec. 8014.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army 
participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
completion of a service commitment:  Provided, That this section shall 
not apply to those members who have reenlisted with this option prior to 
October 1, 1987:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  this 
section applies only to active components of the Army.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8015.  Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred to 
any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose of 
implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance agreement 
pursuant to section 831 of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2339]]

National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-
510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as amended, under the authority of this 
provision or any other transfer authority contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8016.  <<NOTE: Anchor and mooring chain.>>  None of the funds 
in this Act may be available for the purchase by the Department of 
Defense (and its departments and agencies) of welded shipboard anchor 
and mooring chain 4 inches in diameter and under unless the anchor and 
mooring chain are manufactured in the United States from components 
which are substantially manufactured in the United States:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Definition.>> for the purpose of this section, the term 
``manufactured'' shall include cutting, heat treating, quality control, 
testing of chain and welding (including the forging and shot blasting 
process):  Provided further, That for the purpose of this section 
substantially all of the components of anchor and mooring chain shall be 
considered to be produced or manufactured in the United States if the 
aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured in the United 
States exceeds the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
manufactured outside the United States:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Certification.>>  That when adequate 
domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense 
requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of the Service responsible 
for the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations that such 
an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
security purposes.

    Sec. 8017.  None of the funds available in this Act to the 
Department of Defense, other than appropriations made for necessary or 
routine refurbishments, upgrades or maintenance activities, shall be 
used to reduce or to prepare to reduce the number of deployed and non-
deployed strategic delivery vehicles and launchers below the levels set 
forth in the report submitted to Congress in accordance with section 
1042 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012.
    Sec. 8018.  <<NOTE: Alcohol and alcoholic beverages.>>  None of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be used for the support of any 
nonappropriated funds activity of the Department of Defense that 
procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated funds for resale 
(including such alcoholic beverages sold by the drink) on a military 
installation located in the United States unless such malt beverages and 
wine are procured within that State, or in the case of the District of 
Columbia, within the District of Columbia, in which the military 
installation is located:  Provided, That, in a case in which the 
military installation is located in more than one State, purchases may 
be made in any State in which the installation is located:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Applicability.>> such local procurement 
requirements for malt beverages and wine shall apply to all alcoholic 
beverages only for military installations in States which are not 
contiguous with another State:  Provided further, That alcoholic 
beverages other than wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and 
the District of Columbia shall be procured from the most competitive 
source, price and other factors considered.

    Sec. 8019. <<NOTE: Arms and munitions. Certification.>>   None of 
the funds available to the Department of Defense may be used to 
demilitarize or dispose of M-1 Carbines, M-1 Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, 
.22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber rifles, or M-1911 pistols, or to 
demilitarize or destroy small arms ammunition or ammunition components 
that are not otherwise prohibited from commercial sale under Federal 
law, unless the small arms

[[Page 133 STAT. 2340]]

ammunition or ammunition components are certified by the Secretary of 
the Army or designee as unserviceable or unsafe for further use.

    Sec. 8020.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used during a single fiscal year for any 
single relocation of an organization, unit, activity or function of the 
Department of Defense into or within the National Capital Region:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Certification.>>  That the Secretary 
of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
a relocation is required in the best interest of the Government.

    Sec. 8021.  <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Of the funds made available in this 
Act, $25,000,000 shall be available for incentive payments authorized by 
section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544):  
Provided, That a prime contractor or a subcontractor at any tier that 
makes a subcontract award to any subcontractor or supplier as defined in 
section 1544 of title 25, United States Code, or a small business owned 
and controlled by an individual or individuals defined under section 
4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be considered a 
contractor for the purposes of being allowed additional compensation 
under section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) 
whenever the prime contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and 
involves the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to any fiscal 
year:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That notwithstanding 
section 1906 of title 41, United States Code, this section shall be 
applicable to any Department of Defense acquisition of supplies or 
services, including any contract and any subcontract at any tier for 
acquisition of commercial items produced or manufactured, in whole or in 
part, by any subcontractor or supplier defined in section 1544 of title 
25, United States Code, or a small business owned and controlled by an 
individual or individuals defined under section 4221(9) of title 25, 
United States Code.

    Sec. 8022.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense Media 
Activity shall not be used for any national or international political 
or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8023. <<NOTE: Kuwait.>>   During the current fiscal year, the 
Department of Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to 
exceed $350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 
10, United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, 
only from the Government of Kuwait, under that section:  Provided, That, 
upon receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriations or fund which incurred such obligations.

    Sec. 8024. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not less 
than $51,800,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol 
Corporation, of which--
            (1) $39,100,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol Corporation 
        operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-drug activities, 
        and drug demand reduction activities involving youth programs;
            (2) $11,000,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft 
        Procurement, Air Force''; and
            (3) $1,700,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement, 
        Air Force'' for vehicle procurement.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2341]]

    (b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive reimbursement for 
any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for counter-drug activities in 
support of Federal, State, and local government agencies.
    Sec. 8025. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act are 
available to establish a new Department of Defense (department) 
federally funded research and development center (FFRDC), either as a 
new entity, or as a separate entity administrated by an organization 
managing another FFRDC, or as a nonprofit membership corporation 
consisting of a consortium of other FFRDCs and other nonprofit entities.
    (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, Advisory 
Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or any similar entity 
of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant to any defense FFRDC, except 
when acting in a technical advisory capacity, may be compensated for his 
or her services as a member of such entity, or as a paid consultant by 
more than one FFRDC in a fiscal year:  Provided, That a member of any 
such entity referred to previously in this subsection shall be allowed 
travel expenses and per diem as authorized under the Federal Joint 
Travel Regulations, when engaged in the performance of membership 
duties.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
available to the department from any source during the current fiscal 
year may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a fee or other payment 
mechanism, for construction of new buildings not located on a military 
installation, for payment of cost sharing for projects funded by 
Government grants, for absorption of contract overruns, or for certain 
charitable contributions, not to include employee participation in 
community service and/or development.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
available to the department during fiscal year 2020, not more than 6,053 
staff years of technical effort (staff years) may be funded for defense 
FFRDCs:  Provided, That, of the specific amount referred to previously 
in this subsection, not more than 1,148 staff years may be funded for 
the defense studies and analysis FFRDCs:  Provided further, That this 
subsection shall not apply to staff years funded in the National 
Intelligence Program and the Military Intelligence Program.
    (e) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall, with the 
submission of the department's fiscal year 2021 budget request, submit a 
report presenting the specific amounts of staff years of technical 
effort to be allocated for each defense FFRDC during that fiscal year 
and the associated budget estimates.

    Sec. 8026.  <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  None of the funds appropriated or 
made available in this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, or 
armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility or property 
under the control of the Department of Defense which were not melted and 
rolled in the United States or Canada: <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   
Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall apply to any and all 
Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society of Testing and Materials 
(ASTM) or American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) specifications of 
carbon, alloy or armor steel plate:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Certification.>>  That the Secretary of the military 
department responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on 
a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that 
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of 
Defense requirements on a timely

[[Page 133 STAT. 2342]]

basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes:  Provided further, That these 
restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 8027. <<NOTE: Definition. 10 USC 2731 note.>>  For the purposes 
of this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' means the 
Armed Services Committee of the House of Representatives, the Armed 
Services Committee of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on 
Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

    Sec. 8028.  During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance and repair of 
aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the production of components 
and other Defense-related articles, through competition between 
Department of Defense depot maintenance activities and private firms:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Certification.>>  That the Senior Acquisition 
Executive of the military department or Defense Agency concerned, with 
power of delegation, shall certify that successful bids include 
comparable estimates of all direct and indirect costs for both public 
and private bids:  Provided further, That Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under 
this section.

    Sec. 
8029. <<NOTE: Consultation. Determination. Contracts. Rescission. 41 USC 
8304 note.>>  (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.

    (2) <<NOTE: Memorandum.>>  An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) 
is any reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding, 
between the United States and a foreign country pursuant to which the 
Secretary of Defense has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for 
certain products in that country.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Congress a report on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from 
foreign entities in fiscal year 2020. Such report shall separately 
indicate the dollar value of items for which the Buy American Act was 
waived pursuant to any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the 
Trade Agreement Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any 
international agreement to which the United States is a party.

    (c) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
``Buy American Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.

    Sec. 8030.  During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in the 
Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment Recovery 
Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
shall be available until expended for the payments specified by section 
2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8031. <<NOTE: Native Americans. State listing. Housing.>>  (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may convey at no cost to the Air Force, without consideration, to 
Indian tribes located in the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, 
South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington relocatable 
military housing units

[[Page 133 STAT. 2343]]

located at Grand Forks Air Force Base, Malmstrom Air Force Base, 
Mountain Home Air Force Base, Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air 
Force Base that are excess to the needs of the Air Force.

    (b) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
convey, at no cost to the Air Force, military housing units under 
subsection (a) in accordance with the request for such units that are 
submitted to the Secretary by the Operation Walking Shield Program on 
behalf of Indian tribes located in the States of Nevada, Idaho, North 
Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington. Any 
such conveyance shall be subject to the condition that the housing units 
shall be removed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by 
the Secretary.

    (c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any conflicts 
among requests of Indian tribes for housing units under subsection (a) 
before submitting requests to the Secretary of the Air Force under 
subsection (b).
    (d) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  In this section, the term ``Indian 
tribe'' means any recognized Indian tribe included on the current list 
published by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104 of the 
Federally Recognized Indian Tribe Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-454; 108 
Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 5131).

    Sec. 8032.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations which are 
available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance may 
be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of not 
more than $250,000.
    Sec. 8033.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) disestablish, or prepare to disestablish, a Senior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps program in accordance with 
        Department of Defense Instruction Number 1215.08, dated June 26, 
        2006; or
            (2) close, downgrade from host to extension center, or place 
        on probation a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program 
        in accordance with the information paper of the Department of 
        the Army titled ``Army Senior Reserve Officer's Training Corps 
        (SROTC) Program Review and Criteria'', dated January 27, 2014.

    Sec. 8034.  Amounts appropriated for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' 
in this Act may be used for the purchase of up to 24 new passenger 
carrying motor vehicles at a cost of not more than $47,000 per vehicle 
for use by the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency in carrying out the 
responsibilities specified in section 1501 of title 10, United States 
Code, in the United States Indo-Pacific Command, notwithstanding price 
or other limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying 
vehicles.
    Sec. 8035.  Up to $14,000,000 of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'' may be made available for 
the Asia Pacific Regional Initiative Program for the purpose of enabling 
the Pacific Command to execute Theater Security Cooperation activities 
such as humanitarian assistance, and payment of incremental and 
personnel costs of training and exercising with foreign security forces: 
 Provided, That funds made available for this purpose may be used, 
notwithstanding any other funding authorities for humanitarian 
assistance, security assistance or combined exercise expenses:  Provided 
further, That funds may not be obligated to provide assistance to any 
foreign country that

[[Page 133 STAT. 2344]]

is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any 
other provision of law.
    Sec. 8036.  <<NOTE: Regulations. Tobacco and tobacco products. 10 
USC 2484 note.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations to 
prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-related products in military 
resale outlets in the United States, its territories and possessions at 
a price below the most competitive price in the local community:  
Provided, That such regulations shall direct that the prices of tobacco 
or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail outlets shall be 
within the range of prices established for military retail system stores 
located in the United States.

    Sec. 8037. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Department of Defense Working 
Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for 
the purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated 
sale during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to 
customers of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an 
item would not have been chargeable to the Department of Defense 
Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and if the purchase of 
such an investment item would be chargeable during the current fiscal 
year to appropriations made to the Department of Defense for 
procurement.
    (b) <<NOTE: Budget request.>>  The fiscal year 2021 budget request 
for the Department of Defense as well as all justification material and 
other documentation supporting the fiscal year 2021 Department of 
Defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress on the 
basis that any equipment which was classified as an end item and funded 
in a procurement appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted 
for in a proposed fiscal year 2021 procurement appropriation and not in 
the supply management business area or any other area or category of the 
Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.

    Sec. 8038.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for obligation 
beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for the 
Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain available until September 
30, 2021: <<NOTE: 50 USC 3521 note.>>   Provided, That funds 
appropriated, transferred, or otherwise credited to the Central 
Intelligence Agency Central Services Working Capital Fund during this or 
any prior or subsequent fiscal year shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That any funds appropriated or transferred 
to the Central Intelligence Agency for advanced research and development 
acquisition, for agent operations, and for covert action programs 
authorized by the President under section 503 of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) shall remain available until September 30, 
2021.

    Sec. 8039.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', not less 
than $12,000,000 shall be made available only for the mitigation of 
environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to 
tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for 
mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department of Defense 
activities.
    Sec. 8040. <<NOTE: Compliance.>> (a) None of the funds appropriated 
in this Act may be expended by an entity of the Department of Defense 
unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the Buy 
American

[[Page 133 STAT. 2345]]

Act. For <<NOTE: Definition.>>  purposes of this subsection, the term 
``Buy American Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.

    (b) <<NOTE: Determination. Labeling. Fraud. Debarment.>>  If the 
Secretary of Defense determines that a person has been convicted of 
intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription 
to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made 
in America, the Secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 
2410f of title 10, United States Code, whether the person should be 
debarred from contracting with the Department of Defense.

    (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of the Congress 
that any entity of the Department of Defense, in expending the 
appropriation, purchase only American-made equipment and products, 
provided that American-made equipment and products are cost-competitive, 
quality competitive, and available in a timely fashion.
    Sec. 8041. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used--
            (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
            (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or 
        civilian employee of the department who is transferred or 
        reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or 
        employee's place of duty remains at the location of that 
        headquarters.

    (b) <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination. Certification.>>  The 
Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military department may waive the 
limitations in subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, if the Secretary 
determines, and certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate that the granting of the waiver 
will reduce the personnel requirements or the financial requirements of 
the department.

    (c) This section does not apply to--
            (1) field operating agencies funded within the National 
        Intelligence Program;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  an Army field operating agency 
        established to eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of 
        improvised explosive devices, and, as determined by the 
        Secretary of the Army, other similar threats;
            (3) an Army field operating agency established to improve 
        the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities and 
        to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (4) an Air Force field operating agency established to 
        administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and Mortuary 
        Operations for the Department of Defense and authorized Federal 
        entities.

    Sec. 8042. <<NOTE: Contracts. Effective date.>>  (a) None of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to convert to 
contractor performance an activity or function of the Department of 
Defense that, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, is 
performed by Department of Defense civilian employees unless--
            (1) <<NOTE: Plan.>>  the conversion is based on the result 
        of a public-private competition that includes a most efficient 
        and cost effective organization plan developed by such activity 
        or function;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  the Competitive Sourcing 
        Official determines that, over all performance periods stated in 
        the solicitation of offers for performance of the activity or 
        function, the cost of performance of the activity or function by 
        a contractor would be less costly

[[Page 133 STAT. 2346]]

        to the Department of Defense by an amount that equals or exceeds 
        the lesser of--
                    (A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's 
                personnel-related costs for performance of that activity 
                or function by Federal employees; or
                    (B) $10,000,000; and
            (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a 
        proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of Defense 
        by--
                    (A) not making an employer-sponsored health 
                insurance plan available to the workers who are to be 
                employed in the performance of that activity or function 
                under the contract; or
                    (B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored 
                health benefits plan that requires the employer to 
                contribute less towards the premium or subscription 
                share than the amount that is paid by the Department of 
                Defense for health benefits for civilian employees under 
                chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.

    (b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to subsection (a) 
of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 2461 of title 
10, United States Code, and notwithstanding any administrative 
regulation, requirement, or policy to the contrary shall have full 
authority to enter into a contract for the performance of any commercial 
or industrial type function of the Department of Defense that--
            (A) is included on the procurement list established pursuant 
        to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section 8503 of 
        title 41, United States Code);
            (B) is planned to be converted to performance by a qualified 
        nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified nonprofit 
        agency for other severely handicapped individuals in accordance 
        with that Act; or
            (C) is planned to be converted to performance by a qualified 
        firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an Indian tribe, as 
        defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)), or a Native 
        Hawaiian Organization, as defined in section 8(a)(15) of the 
        Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(15)).

    (2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or contracts for 
depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 and 2474 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    (c) The conversion of any activity or function of the Department of 
Defense under the authority provided by this section shall be credited 
toward any competitive or outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that 
may be established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed to be 
awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, subsection (h) 
of section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, for the competition or 
outsourcing of commercial activities.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 8043.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts:  Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that

[[Page 133 STAT. 2347]]

were designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended:
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: DDG-51 Destroyer'', 
        2012/2020, $44,500,000;
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: LCAC SLEP'', 2013/2022, 
        $2,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 2018/2020, $44,000,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2018/2020, $5,182,000;
            ``Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', 2018/2020, 
        $97,000,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2018/2020, $5,685,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2018/2020, $114,781,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 2018/2020, $23,526,000;
            ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 2018/2020, $9,046,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, 
        $160,975,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, $75,973,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, $26,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide: Defense Security 
        Cooperation Agency'', 2019/2020, $21,314,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $58,600,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $67,798,000;
            ``Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', 2019/2021, 
        $215,946,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $107,483,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2019/2021, $307,100,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps'', 2019/
        2021, $22,000,000;
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: DDG-51 Destroyer 
        Advance Procurement'', 2019/2023, $51,000,000;
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy: LPD-17 Advance 
        Procurement'', 2019/2023, $102,900,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 2019/2021, $24,770,000;
            ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 2019/2021, $74,756,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, 
        $713,455,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $39,979,000;
            ``Space Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $164,300,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force'', 2019/2021, 
        $236,100,000;
            ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 2019/2021, $337,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army'', 2019/
        2020, $150,276,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 2019/
        2020, $230,957,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'', 
        2019/2020, $263,050,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
        Wide'', 2019/2020, $267,000,000; and
            ``Defense Health Program: Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation'', 2019/2020, $26,200,000.

    Sec. 8044.  None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
reduce the authorized positions for military technicians (dual status) 
of the Army National Guard, Air National Guard,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2348]]

Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve for the purpose of applying any 
administratively imposed civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or 
reduction on military technicians (dual status), unless such reductions 
are a direct result of a reduction in military force structure.
    Sec. 8045.  <<NOTE: North Korea.>>  None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea unless 
specifically appropriated for that purpose:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Armed Forces remains.>>  this restriction shall not apply 
to any activities incidental to the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency 
mission to recover and identify the remains of United States Armed 
Forces personnel from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.

    Sec. 8046.  <<NOTE: Reimbursement. National Guard and Reserve.>>  
Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and maintenance of the 
Military Departments, Combatant Commands and Defense Agencies shall be 
available for reimbursement of pay, allowances and other expenses which 
would otherwise be incurred against appropriations for the National 
Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard and Reserve provide 
intelligence or counterintelligence support to Combatant Commands, 
Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence Activities, including the 
activities and programs included within the National Intelligence 
Program and the Military Intelligence Program:  Provided, That nothing 
in this section authorizes deviation from established Reserve and 
National Guard personnel and training procedures.

    Sec. 8047. <<NOTE: Drugs and drug abuse. 10 USC 274 note.>>  (a) 
None of the funds available to the Department of Defense for any fiscal 
year for drug interdiction or counter-drug activities may be transferred 
to any other department or agency of the United States except as 
specifically provided in an appropriations law.

    (b) <<NOTE: 50 USC 3506 note.>>  None of the funds available to the 
Central Intelligence Agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or 
counter-drug activities may be transferred to any other department or 
agency of the United States except as specifically provided in an 
appropriations law.

    Sec. 8048. <<NOTE: Ball and roller bearings.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be used for the procurement of ball and 
roller bearings other than those produced by a domestic source and of 
domestic origin:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Certification.>>  the Secretary of the military department 
responsible for such procurement may waive this restriction on a case-
by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, that 
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of 
Defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition must 
be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes:  
Provided further, That this restriction shall not apply to the purchase 
of ``commercial items'', as defined by section 103 of title 41, United 
States Code, except that the restriction shall apply to ball or roller 
bearings purchased as end items.

    Sec. 8049.  Of the amounts appropriated for ``Working Capital Fund, 
Army'', $129,000,000 shall be available to maintain competitive rates at 
the arsenals.
    Sec. 8050.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available elsewhere in this Act, $44,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
to the Department of Defense:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination. Grants.>> That upon the determination 
of the Secretary of Defense that it shall serve the national interest, 
the Secretary shall make grants in the amounts

[[Page 133 STAT. 2349]]

specified as follows: $20,000,000 to the United Service Organizations 
and $24,000,000 to the Red Cross.

    Sec. 8051. <<NOTE: Supercomputers. Certification.>>  None of the 
funds in this Act may be used to purchase any supercomputer which is not 
manufactured in the United States, unless the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that such an 
acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
security purposes that is not available from United States 
manufacturers.

    Sec. 8052.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the 
Small Business Innovation Research program and the Small Business 
Technology Transfer program set-asides shall be taken proportionally 
from all programs, projects, or activities to the extent they contribute 
to the extramural budget.
    Sec. 8053. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  None of the funds available to the 
Department of Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
pay a contractor under a contract with the Department of Defense for 
costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an employee when--
            (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of the 
        normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
            (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
        with a business combination.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8054.  During the current fiscal year, no more than $30,000,000 
of appropriations made in this Act under the heading ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be transferred to appropriations 
available for the pay of military personnel, to be merged with, and to 
be available for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred, to be used in support of such personnel in connection with 
support and services for eligible organizations and activities outside 
the Department of Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 8055.  During the current fiscal year, in the case of an 
appropriation account of the Department of Defense for which the period 
of availability for obligation has expired or which has closed under the 
provisions of section 1552 of title 31, United States Code, and which 
has a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation or an 
adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current appropriation 
account for the same purpose as the expired or closed account if--
            (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
        (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
        the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
        account;
            (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
        any current appropriation account of the Department of Defense; 
        and
            (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is not 
        chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department of 
        Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, Public 
        Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note):  Provided, That 
        in the case of an expired account, if subsequent review or 
        investigation discloses that there was not in fact a negative 
        unliquidated or unexpended balance in the account, any charge

[[Page 133 STAT. 2350]]

        to a current account under the authority of this section shall 
        be reversed and recorded against the expired account:  Provided 
        further, That the total amount charged to a current 
        appropriation under this section may not exceed an amount equal 
        to 1 percent of the total appropriation for that account:

  Provided, That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall 
include with the budget of the President for fiscal year 2021 (as 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code) a statement describing each instance if any, during each of 
the fiscal years 2015 through 2020 in which the authority in this 
section was exercised.
    Sec. 8056. <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the 
use of equipment of the National Guard Distance Learning Project by any 
person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable basis. The Chief of 
the National Guard Bureau shall establish the amount of reimbursement 
for such use on a case-by-case basis.

    (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be credited to 
funds available for the National Guard Distance Learning Project and be 
available to defray the costs associated with the use of equipment of 
the project under that subsection. Such funds shall be available for 
such purposes without fiscal year limitation.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8057.  Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $35,000,000 shall be for 
continued implementation and expansion of the Sexual Assault Special 
Victims' Counsel Program:  Provided, That the funds are made available 
for transfer to the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
and the Department of the Air Force:  Provided further, That funds 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which the funds are 
transferred:  Provided further, That this transfer authority is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.
    Sec. 8058.  None of the funds appropriated in title IV of this Act 
may be used to procure end-items for delivery to military forces for 
operational training, operational use or inventory requirements:  
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to end-items used in 
development, prototyping, and test activities preceding and leading to 
acceptance for operational use:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  
That the Secretary of Defense shall, at the time of the submittal to 
Congress of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to 
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report detailing the use of funds 
requested in research, development, test and evaluation accounts for 
end-items used in development, prototyping and test activities preceding 
and leading to acceptance for operational use:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Lists.>> the report shall set forth, for each end-item 
covered by the preceding proviso, a detailed list of the statutory 
authorities under which amounts in the accounts described in that 
proviso were used for such item:  Provided further, That this 
restriction does not apply to programs funded within the National 
Intelligence Program:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Certification.>> That the Secretary of Defense may waive this 
restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing

[[Page 133 STAT. 2351]]

to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate that it is in the national security interest to do so.

    Sec. 8059. <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>>  (a) The 
Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-case basis, waive with respect to 
a foreign country each limitation on the procurement of defense items 
from foreign sources provided in law if the Secretary determines that 
the application of the limitation with respect to that country would 
invalidate cooperative programs entered into between the Department of 
Defense and the foreign country, or would invalidate reciprocal trade 
agreements for the procurement of defense items entered into under 
section 2531 of title 10, United States Code, and the country does not 
discriminate against the same or similar defense items produced in the 
United States for that country.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Contracts.>>  Subsection (a) applies with 
respect to--
            (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised 
        after such date under contracts that are entered into before 
        such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason other 
        than the application of a waiver granted under subsection (a).

    (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, and 
clothing or textile materials as defined by section XI (chapters 50-65) 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and products 
classified under headings 4010, 4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 
7019, 7218 through 7229, 7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 
7508, 8105, 8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
    Sec. 8060.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or other Department of Defense Appropriations Acts may 
be obligated or expended for the purpose of performing repairs or 
maintenance to military family housing units of the Department of 
Defense, including areas in such military family housing units that may 
be used for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense 
business.
    Sec. 8061. <<NOTE: Time period. Reports. Strategies. Cost 
estimates.>>   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new start advanced concept 
technology demonstration project or joint capability demonstration 
project may only be obligated 45 days after a report, including a 
description of the project, the planned acquisition and transition 
strategy and its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in 
writing to the congressional defense committees.

    Sec. 8062. <<NOTE: Classified information. Reports.>>   The 
Secretary of Defense shall continue to provide a classified quarterly 
report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, Subcommittees 
on Defense on certain matters as directed in the classified annex 
accompanying this Act.

    Sec. 8063.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, a Reserve who is a member of the National Guard serving on 
full-time National Guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, United 
States Code, may perform duties in support of the ground-based elements 
of the National Ballistic Missile Defense System.
    Sec. 8064. <<NOTE: Arms and munitions.>>   None of the funds 
provided in this Act may be used to transfer to any nongovernmental 
entity ammunition held

[[Page 133 STAT. 2352]]

by the Department of Defense that has a center-fire cartridge and a 
United States military nomenclature designation of ``armor penetrator'', 
``armor piercing (AP)'', ``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or 
``armor-piercing incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity 
performing demilitarization services for the Department of Defense under 
a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the satisfaction 
of the Department of Defense that armor piercing projectiles are either: 
(1) rendered incapable of reuse by the demilitarization process; or (2) 
used to manufacture ammunition pursuant to a contract with the 
Department of Defense or the manufacture of ammunition for export 
pursuant to a License for Permanent Export of Unclassified Military 
Articles issued by the Department of State.

    Sec. 8065. <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Time period.>>   
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, or his designee, may waive payment of all or part of the 
consideration that otherwise would be required under section 2667 of 
title 10, United States Code, in the case of a lease of personal 
property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any organization 
specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United States Code, or any 
other youth, social, or fraternal nonprofit organization as may be 
approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, on 
a case-by-case basis.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8066. <<NOTE: Contracts. Determinations.>>   Of the amounts 
appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Army'', $138,103,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Defense is authorized to transfer such funds to other activities of the 
Federal Government:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to enter into and carry out contracts for the acquisition of 
real property, construction, personal services, and operations related 
to projects carrying out the purposes of this section:  Provided 
further, That contracts entered into under the authority of this section 
may provide for such indemnification as the Secretary determines to be 
necessary:  Provided further, That projects authorized by this section 
shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local law to the 
maximum extent consistent with the national security, as determined by 
the Secretary of Defense.

    Sec. 8067. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act may be used to take any action to modify--
            (1) the appropriations account structure for the National 
        Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation of a 
        new appropriation or new appropriation account;
            (2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is 
        presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents 
        supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
            (3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
            (4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit the 
merger of programs or changes to the National Intelligence Program 
budget at or below the Expenditure Center level, provided

[[Page 133 STAT. 2353]]

such change is otherwise in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)-(3).
    (c) <<NOTE: Study. Proposals.>>  The Director of National 
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense may jointly, only for the 
purposes of achieving auditable financial statements and improving 
fiscal reporting, study and develop detailed proposals for alternative 
financial management processes. Such <<NOTE: Assessment.>> study shall 
include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment to ensure 
that none of the alternative processes will adversely affect 
counterintelligence.

    (d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined under 
subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
of Defense shall--
            (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected 
        agencies;
            (2) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  receive certification from all 
        affected agencies attesting that the proposed alternatives will 
        help achieve auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will 
        not adversely affect counterintelligence; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  not later than 30 days after 
        receiving all necessary certifications under paragraph (2), 
        present the proposed alternatives and certifications to the 
        congressional defense and intelligence committees.

    Sec. 8068.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
$10,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense, to 
remain available for obligation until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: Determination. Grants. Fisher House Foundation, 
Inc.>>  any other provision of law, that upon the determination of the 
Secretary of Defense that it shall serve the national interest, these 
funds shall be available only for a grant to the Fisher House 
Foundation, Inc., only for the construction and furnishing of additional 
Fisher Houses to meet the needs of military family members when 
confronted with the illness or hospitalization of an eligible military 
beneficiary.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8069.  Of the amounts appropriated for ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy'', up to $1,000,000 shall be available for transfer to 
the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Development Trust Fund 
established under section 116 of the John C. Stennis Center for Public 
Service Training and Development Act (2 U.S.C. 1105).
    Sec. 8070. <<NOTE: Modification.>>  None of the funds available to 
the Department of Defense may be obligated to modify command and control 
relationships to give Fleet Forces Command operational and 
administrative control of United States Navy forces assigned to the 
Pacific fleet:  Provided, That the command and control relationships 
which existed on October 1, 2004, shall remain in force until a written 
modification has been proposed to the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> That 
the proposed modification may be implemented 30 days after the 
notification unless an objection is received from either the House or 
Senate Appropriations Committees:  Provided further, That any proposed 
modification shall not preclude the ability of the commander of United 
States Indo-Pacific Command to meet operational requirements.

    Sec. 8071. <<NOTE: Notification. 10 USC 2302 note.>>   Any notice 
that is required to be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives under section 806(c)(4) of 
the Bob Stump

[[Page 133 STAT. 2354]]

National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (10 U.S.C. 2302 
note) after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be submitted 
pursuant to that requirement concurrently to the Subcommittees on 
Defense of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8072. <<NOTE: Israel.>>   Of the amounts appropriated in this 
Act under the headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $500,000,000 shall be 
for the Israeli Cooperative Programs:  Provided, That of this amount, 
$95,000,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the 
Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense system 
to counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the U.S.-Israel Iron 
Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended; $191,000,000 shall be for the 
Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense (SRBMD) program, including cruise 
missile defense research and development under the SRBMD program, of 
which $50,000,000 shall be for co-production activities of SRBMD systems 
in the United States and in Israel to meet Israel's defense requirements 
consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and procedures, subject 
to the U.S.-Israeli co-production agreement for SRBMD, as amended; 
$55,000,000 shall be for an upper-tier component to the Israeli Missile 
Defense Architecture, of which $55,000,000 shall be for co-production 
activities of Arrow 3 Upper Tier systems in the United States and in 
Israel to meet Israel's defense requirements consistent with each 
nation's laws, regulations, and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli 
co-production agreement for Arrow 3 Upper Tier, as amended; and 
$159,000,000 shall be for the Arrow System Improvement Program including 
development of a long range, ground and airborne, detection suite:  
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
provision is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in 
this Act.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8073.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', $104,700,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2020, to fund prior year shipbuilding cost 
increases:  Provided, That upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Navy shall transfer funds to the following appropriations in the 
amounts specified:  Provided further, That the amounts transferred shall 
be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
appropriations to which transferred to:
            (1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
        2016/2020: Littoral Combat Ship $14,000,000;
            (2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
        2016/2020: Expeditionary Sea Base $38,000,000;
            (3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
        2018/2020: TAO Fleet Oiler $3,700,000; and
            (4) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
        2019/2020: Expeditionary Fast Transport $49,000,000.

    Sec. 8074.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2355]]

3094) during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
    Sec. 8075. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  None of the funds provided in 
this Act shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that creates or initiates a new program, project, 
or activity unless such program, project, or activity must be undertaken 
immediately in the interest of national security and only after written 
prior notification to the congressional defense committees.

    Sec. 8076. <<NOTE: 10 USC 221 note.>>  The budget of the President 
for fiscal year 2021 submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 1105 
of title 31, United States Code, shall include separate budget 
justification documents for costs of United States Armed Forces' 
participation in contingency operations for the Military Personnel 
accounts, the Operation and Maintenance accounts, the Procurement 
accounts, and the Research, Development, Test and Evaluation accounts:  
Provided, That these documents shall include a description of the 
funding requested for each contingency operation, for each military 
service, to include all Active and Reserve components, and for each 
appropriations account:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Cost 
estimates.>>  these documents shall include estimated costs for each 
element of expense or object class, a reconciliation of increases and 
decreases for each contingency operation, and programmatic data 
including, but not limited to, troop strength for each Active and 
Reserve component, and estimates of the major weapons systems deployed 
in support of each contingency:  Provided further, That these documents 
shall include budget exhibits OP-5 and OP-32 (as defined in the 
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation) for all 
contingency operations for the budget year and the two preceding fiscal 
years.

    Sec. 8077. <<NOTE: Nuclear interceptors.>>  None of the funds in 
this Act may be used for research, development, test, evaluation, 
procurement or deployment of nuclear armed interceptors of a missile 
defense system.

    Sec. 8078.  The Secretary of Defense may use up to $650,000,000 of 
the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act to the 
Department of Defense for the rapid acquisition and deployment of 
supplies and associated support services pursuant to section 806 of the 
Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 
(Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), but only for the purposes 
specified in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of subsection (c)(3)(B) 
of such section and subject to the applicable limits specified in 
clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of such subsection and, in the case of 
clause (iv) of such subsection, subject to a limit of $50,000,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees promptly of all uses of such 
authority.

    Sec. 8079.  <<NOTE: 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron.>>  None of 
the funds appropriated or made available in this Act shall be used to 
reduce or disestablish the operation of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance 
Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such action would reduce the WC-
130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in this Act:  
Provided, That the Air Force shall allow the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance 
Squadron to perform other missions in support of national defense 
requirements during the non-hurricane season.

    Sec. 8080.  <<NOTE: Foreign intellligence.>>  None of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be available for integration of foreign 
intelligence information unless the information has been lawfully 
collected and processed during the conduct of authorized foreign 
intelligence activities:  Provided,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2356]]

That information pertaining to United States persons shall only be 
handled in accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment 
of the United States Constitution as implemented through Executive Order 
No. 12333.

    Sec. 8081. <<NOTE: Tactical unmanned aerial vehicles.>> (a) None of 
the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to transfer research and 
development, acquisition, or other program authority relating to current 
tactical unmanned aerial vehicles (TUAVs) from the Army.

    (b) The Army shall retain responsibility for and operational control 
of the MQ-1C Gray Eagle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in order to 
support the Secretary of Defense in matters relating to the employment 
of unmanned aerial vehicles.
    Sec. 8082.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for 
funds appropriated for research and technology, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.
    Sec. 8083. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  For purposes of section 1553(b) 
of title 31, United States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made 
in this Act under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' 
shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any subdivision under 
the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' appropriations in any 
prior fiscal year, and the 1 percent limitation shall apply to the total 
amount of the appropriation.

    Sec. 8084. <<NOTE: Reports.>> (a) Not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence committees to 
establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
authorities for fiscal year 2020:  Provided, That the report shall 
include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
        display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
        Expenditure Center and project; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

    (b) <<NOTE: Certification.>> None of the funds provided for the 
National Intelligence Program in this Act shall be available for 
reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in subsection (a) 
is submitted to the congressional intelligence committees, unless the 
Director of National Intelligence certifies in writing to the 
congressional intelligence committees that such reprogramming or 
transfer is necessary as an emergency requirement.

    Sec. 8085.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any transfer 
of funds, appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act, for 
support to friendly foreign countries in connection with the conduct of 
operations in which the United States is not participating, pursuant to 
section 331(d) of title 10, United States Code, shall be made in 
accordance with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
    Sec. 8086.  Any transfer of amounts appropriated to, credited to, or 
deposited in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
Fund in or for fiscal year 2020 to a military department or Defense 
Agency pursuant to section 1705(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
shall be covered by and subject to section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as 
applicable.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2357]]

    Sec. 8087. <<NOTE: Child soldiers.>>  None of the funds made 
available by this Act for excess defense articles, assistance under 
section 333 of title 10, United States Code, or peacekeeping operations 
for the countries designated annually to be in violation of the 
standards of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
457; 22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) may be used to support any military training or 
operation that includes child soldiers, as defined by the Child Soldiers 
Prevention Act of 2008, unless such assistance is otherwise permitted 
under section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008.

    Sec. 8088. (a) None of the funds provided for the National 
Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or 
transfer of funds in accordance with section 102A(d) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that--
            (1) creates a new start effort;
            (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of 
        $10,000,000 or more;
            (3) transfers funding into or out of the National 
        Intelligence Program; or
            (4) transfers funding between appropriations, unless the 
        congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in 
        advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period 
        may be reduced for urgent national security requirements.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  None of the funds provided 
for the National Intelligence Program in this or any prior 
appropriations Act shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 
102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that 
results in a cumulative increase or decrease of the levels specified in 
the classified annex accompanying the Act unless the congressional 
intelligence committees are notified 30 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds; this notification period may be reduced for 
urgent national security requirements.

    Sec. 8089. <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For the purposes of this Act, the 
term ``congressional intelligence committees'' means the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, the 
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Subcommittee on 
Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8090.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed 
$11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II of this Act 
for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy'', and ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'' may be transferred 
by the military department concerned to its central fund established for 
Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of title 10, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 8091.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
available for the purpose of making remittances to the Department of 
Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in accordance with 
section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2358]]

    Sec. 8092. <<NOTE: Public information. Web 
posting. Reports. Determinations.>> (a) Any agency receiving funds made 
available in this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post 
on the public Web site of that agency any report required to be 
submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the national 
interest.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.

    (c) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The head of the agency posting such 
report shall do so only after such report has been made available to the 
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

    Sec. 8093. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  (a) None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may be expended for any Federal 
contract for an amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the contractor 
agrees not to--
            (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or 
        independent contractors that requires, as a condition of 
        employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree to 
        resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of the 
        Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out 
        of sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention; or
            (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing 
        agreement with an employee or independent contractor that 
        mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve 
        through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil 
        Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of 
        sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.

    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be expended for any Federal contract unless the contractor 
certifies that it requires each covered subcontractor to agree not to 
enter into, and not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any 
agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), with 
respect to any employee or independent contractor performing work 
related to such subcontract. For purposes of this subsection, a 
``covered subcontractor'' is an entity that has a subcontract in excess 
of $1,000,000 on a contract subject to subsection (a).
    (c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with respect to a 
contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with employees or independent 
contractors that may not be enforced in a court of the United States.
    (d) <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination.>>  The Secretary of 
Defense may waive the application of subsection (a) or (b) to a 
particular contractor or subcontractor for the purposes of a particular 
contract or subcontract if the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary 
personally determines that the waiver is necessary to avoid harm to 
national security interests of the United States, and that the term of 
the contract or subcontract is not longer than necessary to avoid such 
harm. The determination shall set forth with specificity the grounds for 
the waiver and for the contract or subcontract term selected, and shall 
state any alternatives considered in lieu of a waiver and the reasons 
each such alternative would not avoid harm to national security

[[Page 133 STAT. 2359]]

interests of the United States. <<NOTE: Public 
information. Determination. Deadline.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall 
transmit to Congress, and simultaneously make public, any determination 
under this subsection not less than 15 business days before the contract 
or subcontract addressed in the determination may be awarded.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8094.  From within the funds appropriated for operation and 
maintenance for the Defense Health Program in this Act, up to 
$127,000,000, shall be available for transfer to the Joint Department of 
Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
Fund in accordance with the provisions of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 111-84:  
Provided, That for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility operations 
funded are operations of the integrated Captain James A. Lovell Federal 
Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting 
facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility as 
described by section 706 of Public Law 110-417:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That additional funds may be 
transferred from funds appropriated for operation and maintenance for 
the Defense Health Program to the Joint Department of Defense-Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written 
notification by the Secretary of Defense to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 8095.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used by the Department of Defense or a 
component thereof in contravention of the provisions of section 130h of 
title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8096.  Appropriations available to the Department of Defense 
may be used for the purchase of heavy and light armored vehicles for the 
physical security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to a 
limit of $450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other 
limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8097. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon a determination by the 
Director of National Intelligence that such action is necessary and in 
the national interest, the Director may, with the approval of the Office 
of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed $1,500,000,000 of the 
funds made available in this Act for the National Intelligence Program:  
Provided, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence requirements, 
than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the 
item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reprogramming request. Deadline.>> That a 
request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority provided in 
this section shall be made prior to June 30, 2020.

    Sec. 8098. <<NOTE: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Detainees. Cuba.>>  None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release to or within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--

[[Page 133 STAT. 2360]]

            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of 
        Defense.

    Sec. 8099. <<NOTE: Detainee. Cuba.>>  None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available in this Act may be used to transfer any 
individual detained at United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
to the custody or control of the individual's country of origin, any 
other foreign country, or any other foreign entity except in accordance 
with section 1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) and section 1035 of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
232).

    Sec. 8100.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
    Sec. 8101. (a) <<NOTE: Rosoboronexport.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be 
used by the Secretary of Defense, or any other official or officer of 
the Department of Defense, to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, or 
provide a loan or loan guarantee to Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of 
Rosoboronexport.

    (b) <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Consultation. Determination. Certification. Russia. Ukraine.>> 
 The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in subsection (a) if 
the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
Director of National Intelligence, determines that it is in the vital 
national security interest of the United States to do so, and certifies 
in writing to the congressional defense committees that, to the best of 
the Secretary's knowledge:
            (1) <<NOTE: Syria.>>  Rosoboronexport has ceased the 
        transfer of lethal military equipment to, and the maintenance of 
        existing lethal military equipment for, the Government of the 
        Syrian Arab Republic;
            (2) The armed forces of the Russian Federation have 
        withdrawn from Crimea, other than armed forces present on 
        military bases subject to agreements in force between the 
        Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of 
        Ukraine; and
            (3) Agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking 
        active measures to destabilize the control of the Government of 
        Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.

    (c) <<NOTE: Review. Reports.>> The Inspector General of the 
Department of Defense shall conduct a review of any action involving 
Rosoboronexport with respect to a waiver issued by the Secretary of 
Defense pursuant to subsection (b), and not later than 90 days after the 
date on which such a waiver is issued by the Secretary of Defense, the 
Inspector General shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing the results of the review conducted with respect to 
such waiver.

    Sec. 8102.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the purchase or manufacture of a flag of the United States unless 
such flags are treated as covered items under section 2533a(b) of title 
10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8103. <<NOTE: Cuba.>>  (a) None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United States, its 
territories,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2361]]

or possessions to house any individual described in subsection (c) for 
the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
effective control of the Department of Defense.

    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control of 
                the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    Sec. 8104. <<NOTE: Regulations. Claims. 10 USC 2731 note.>> (a) Of 
the funds appropriated in this Act for the Department of Defense, 
amounts should be made available, under such regulations as the 
Secretary of Defense may prescribe, to local military commanders 
appointed by the Secretary, or by an officer or employee designated by 
the Secretary, to provide at their discretion ex gratia payments in 
amounts consistent with subsection (d) of this section for damage, 
personal injury, or death that is incident to combat operations of the 
Armed Forces in a foreign country.

    (b) An ex gratia payment under this section may be provided only 
if--
            (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is determined 
        by the local military commander to be friendly to the United 
        States;
            (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under 
        chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Foreign Claims Act''); and
            (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
        caused by action by an enemy.

    (c) Any payments provided under a program under subsection (a) shall 
not be considered an admission or acknowledgement of any legal 
obligation to compensate for any damage, personal injury, or death.
    (d) <<NOTE: Determination. Regulations. Assessment.>>  If the 
Secretary of Defense determines a program under subsection (a) to be 
appropriate in a particular setting, the amounts of payments, if any, to 
be provided to civilians determined to have suffered harm incident to 
combat operations of the Armed Forces under the program should be 
determined pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary and based 
on an assessment, which should include such factors as cultural 
appropriateness and prevailing economic conditions.

    (e) Local military commanders shall receive legal advice before 
making ex gratia payments under this subsection. The legal advisor, 
under regulations of the Department of Defense, shall advise on whether 
an ex gratia payment is proper under this section and applicable 
Department of Defense regulations.
    (f) <<NOTE: Records. Determination.>>  A written record of any ex 
gratia payment offered or denied shall be kept by the local commander 
and on a timely basis submitted to the appropriate office in the 
Department of Defense as determined by the Secretary of Defense.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2362]]

    (g) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall report to the 
congressional defense committees on an annual basis the efficacy of the 
ex gratia payment program including the number of types of cases 
considered, amounts offered, the response from ex gratia payment 
recipients, and any recommended modifications to the program.

    Sec. 8105.  <<NOTE: Grants. Web posting.>>  The Secretary of Defense 
shall post grant awards on a public website in a searchable format.

    Sec. 8106.  The Secretary of each military department, in reducing 
each research, development, test and evaluation and procurement account 
of the military department as required under paragraph (1) of section 
828(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note), as amended by section 
825(a)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018, shall allocate the percentage reduction determined under paragraph 
(2) of such section 828(d) proportionally from all programs, projects, 
or activities under such account:  Provided, That the authority under 
section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) to transfer amounts 
available in the Rapid Prototyping Fund shall be subject to section 8005 
or 9002 of this Act, as applicable.
    Sec. 8107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the National Security Agency to--
            (1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 for the purpose of 
        targeting a United States person; or
            (2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term is 
        defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, United States Code) of 
        any electronic communication of a United States person from a 
        provider of electronic communication services to the public 
        pursuant to section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
        Act of 1978.

    Sec. 8108. <<NOTE: Salaries.>>   None of the funds made available in 
this or any other Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or 
employee of any agency funded by this Act who approves or implements the 
transfer of administrative responsibilities or budgetary resources of 
any program, project, or activity financed by this Act to the 
jurisdiction of another Federal agency not financed by this Act without 
the express authorization of Congress:  Provided, That this limitation 
shall not apply to transfers of funds expressly provided for in Defense 
Appropriations Acts, or provisions of Acts providing supplemental 
appropriations for the Department of Defense.

    Sec. 8109.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Navy'', $352,044,000, to remain available until 
expended, may be used for any purposes related to the National Defense 
Reserve Fleet established under section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
Act of 1946 (46 U.S.C. 57100):  Provided, That such amounts are 
available for reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime 
Administration account of the United States Department of Transportation 
for programs, projects, activities, and expenses related to the National 
Defense Reserve Fleet.
    Sec. 8110. <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>   None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be obligated for activities authorized 
under section 1208 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1621) to initiate support for, or expand support to, foreign forces, 
irregular forces, groups,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2363]]

or individuals unless the congressional defense committees are notified 
in accordance with the direction contained in the classified annex 
accompanying this Act, not less than 15 days before initiating such 
support:  Provided, That none of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used under section 1208 for any activity that is not in support 
of an ongoing military operation being conducted by United States 
Special Operations Forces to combat terrorism:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Determination. Deadline. Notification.>>  That the Secretary 
of Defense may waive the prohibitions in this section if the Secretary 
determines that such waiver is required by extraordinary circumstances 
and, by not later than 72 hours after making such waiver, notifies the 
congressional defense committees of such waiver.

    Sec. 8111. <<NOTE: Iraq.>>   None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used with respect to Iraq in contravention of the War 
Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the 
introduction of United States armed forces into hostilities in Iraq, 
into situations in Iraq where imminent involvement in hostilities is 
clearly indicated by the circumstances, or into Iraqi territory, 
airspace, or waters while equipped for combat, in contravention of the 
congressional consultation and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 
4 of such Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).

    Sec. 8112. <<NOTE: Consultation. Reports. Records. Time 
period. Firearms.>>  The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Service Secretaries, shall submit two reports to the congressional 
defense committees, not later than March 1, 2020, and not later than 
September 1, 2020, detailing the submission of records during the 
previous 6 months to databases accessible to the National Instant 
Criminal Background Check System (NICS), including the Interstate 
Identification Index (III), the National Crime Information Center 
(NCIC), and the NICS Index, as required by Public Law 110-180:  
Provided, That such reports shall provide the number and category of 
records submitted by month to each such database, by Service or 
Component:  Provided further, That such reports shall identify the 
number and category of records submitted by month to those databases for 
which the Identification for Firearm Sales (IFFS) flag or other database 
flags were used to pre-validate the records and indicate that such 
persons are prohibited from receiving or possessing a firearm:  Provided 
further, That such reports shall describe the steps taken during the 
previous 6 months, by Service or Component, to ensure complete and 
accurate submission and appropriate flagging of records of individuals 
prohibited from gun possession or receipt pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 922(g) 
or (n) including applicable records involving proceedings under the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice.

    Sec. 8113. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  (a) None of the funds provided in 
this Act for the TAO Fleet Oiler program shall be used to award a new 
contract that provides for the acquisition of the following components 
unless those components are manufactured in the United States: Auxiliary 
equipment (including pumps) for shipboard services; propulsion equipment 
(including engines, reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; 
and spreaders for shipboard cranes.

    (b) None of the funds provided in this Act for the FFG(X) Frigate 
program shall be used to award a new contract that provides for the 
acquisition of the following components unless those components are 
manufactured in the United States: Air circuit breakers; gyrocompasses; 
electronic navigation chart systems; steering controls; pumps; 
propulsion and machinery control systems; totally enclosed lifeboats; 
auxiliary equipment pumps; shipboard cranes;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2364]]

auxiliary chill water systems; and propulsion propellers:  Provided, 
That the <<NOTE: Effective date. Deadline.>>  Secretary of the Navy 
shall incorporate United States manufactured propulsion engines and 
propulsion reduction gears into the FFG(X) Frigate program beginning not 
later than with the eleventh ship of the program.

    Sec. 8114.  No amounts credited or otherwise made available in this 
or any other Act to the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
Development Fund may be transferred to:
            (1) the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 
        804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2016 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note); or
            (2) credited to a military-department specific fund 
        established under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (as amended by section 
        897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2017).

    Sec. 8115. <<NOTE: Gaming. Adult entertainment.>>   None of the 
funds made available by this Act may be used for Government Travel 
Charge Card expenses by military or civilian personnel of the Department 
of Defense for gaming, or for entertainment that includes topless or 
nude entertainers or participants, as prohibited by Department of 
Defense FMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3 and Department of Defense Instruction 
1015.10 (enclosure 3, 14a and 14b).

    Sec. 8116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from funds 
made available to the Department of Defense in title II of this Act 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
$15,000,000 shall be available for a project in a country designated by 
the Secretary of Defense:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts. Reimbursement.>>  That in 
furtherance of the project, the Department of Defense is authorized to 
acquire services, including services performed pursuant to a grant 
agreement, from another Federal agency, on an advance of funds or 
reimbursable basis:  Provided further, That an order for services placed 
under this section is deemed to be an obligation in the same manner that 
a similar order placed under a contract with a private contractor is an 
obligation.

    Sec. 8117. <<NOTE: Turkey.>>   None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act may be made available to deliver F-35 air vehicles or any other 
F-35 weapon system equipment to the Republic of Turkey, except in 
accordance with section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2020.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8118.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act, the Secretary 
of Defense may use up to $82,046,000 under the heading ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', and up to $44,001,000 under the heading 
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' to develop, 
replace, and sustain Federal Government security and suitability 
background investigation information technology systems of the Office of 
Personnel Management or other Federal agency responsible for conducting 
such investigations:  Provided, That the Secretary may transfer 
additional amounts into these headings or into ``Procurement, Defense-
Wide'' using established reprogramming procedures prescribed in the 
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 7000.14, Volume 3, 
Chapter 6, dated September 2015:  Provided further, That such

[[Page 133 STAT. 2365]]

funds shall supplement, not supplant any other amounts made available to 
other Federal agencies for such purposes.
    Sec. 8119. <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network is designed to block access to pornography 
websites.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities, or for any activity necessary for the national 
defense, including intelligence activities.
    Sec. 8120.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any transfer 
of funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act to the 
Global Engagement Center established by section 1287 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
Stat. 22 U.S.C. 2656 note) shall be made in accordance with section 8005 
or 9002 of this Act, as applicable, but only after the amount so 
transferred exceeds $20,000,000, the amount appropriated in this Act for 
the Global Engagement Center.
    Sec. 8121.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
there is appropriated $315,000,000, for an additional amount for 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such funds shall only be available to the 
Secretary of Defense, acting through the Office of Economic Adjustment 
of the Department of Defense, or for transfer to the Secretary of 
Education, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to make grants, 
conclude cooperative agreements, or supplement other Federal funds to 
construct, renovate, repair, or expand elementary and secondary public 
schools on military installations in order to address capacity or 
facility condition deficiencies at such schools:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That in making such funds available, 
the Office of Economic Adjustment or the Secretary of Education shall 
give priority consideration to those military installations with schools 
having the most serious capacity or facility condition deficiencies as 
determined by the Secretary of Defense:  Provided further, That as a 
condition of receiving funds under this section a local educational 
agency or State shall provide a matching share as described in the 
notice titled ``Department of Defense Program for Construction, 
Renovation, Repair or Expansion of Public Schools Located on Military 
Installations'' published by the Department of Defense in the Federal 
Register on September 9, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 55883 et seq.):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That these provisions apply to funds 
provided under this section, and to funds previously provided by 
Congress to construct, renovate, repair, or expand elementary and 
secondary public schools on military installations in order to address 
capacity or facility condition deficiencies at such schools to the 
extent such funds remain unobligated on the date of enactment of this 
section.

    Sec. 8122. <<NOTE: Cuba.>>   None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the 
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    Sec. 8123. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   In carrying out the program 
described in the memorandum on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted 
Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/
Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members'' issued by the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and 
the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2366]]

guidance issued to implement such memorandum, the Secretary of Defense 
shall apply such policy and guidance, except that--
            (1) <<NOTE: Embryos.>>  the limitation on periods regarding 
        embryo cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and 
        in part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  the term ``assisted reproductive 
        technology'' shall include embryo cryopreservation and storage 
        without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and 
        storage.

    Sec. 8124. <<NOTE: Azov Battalion.>>   None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used to provide arms, training, or other 
assistance to the Azov Battalion.

    Sec. 8125. <<NOTE: Determination.>>   None of the funds provided 
for, or otherwise made available, in this or any other Act, may be 
obligated or expended by the Secretary of Defense to provide motorized 
vehicles, aviation platforms, munitions other than small arms and 
munitions appropriate for customary ceremonial honors, operational 
military units, or operational military platforms if the Secretary 
determines that providing such units, platforms, or equipment would 
undermine the readiness of such units, platforms, or equipment.

    Sec. 8126.  The Secretary of Defense may obligate and expend funds 
made available under this Act for procurement or for research, 
development, test and evaluation for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter to 
modify up to six F-35 aircraft, including up to two F-35 aircraft of 
each variant, to a test configuration:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Air Force 
and the Secretary of the Navy, notify the congressional defense 
committees not fewer than 30 days prior to obligating and expending 
funds under this section:  Provided further, That any transfer of funds 
pursuant to the authority provided in this section shall be made in 
accordance with section 8005 or 9002 of this Act, as appropriate, if 
applicable:  Provided further, That aircraft referred to previously in 
this section are not additional to aircraft referred to in section 8135 
of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019.

    Sec. 8127. <<NOTE: 10 USC 1475 note.>>   Amounts appropriated for 
``Defense Health Program'' in this Act and hereafter may be obligated to 
make death gratuity payments, as authorized in subchapter II of chapter 
75 of title 10, United States Code, if no appropriation for ``Military 
Personnel'' is available for obligation for such payments:  Provided, 
That such obligations may subsequently be recorded against 
appropriations available for ``Military Personnel''.

    Sec. 8128. (a) <<NOTE: Corporation. Taxes.>>  None of the funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to enter into a contract, 
memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to any corporation that has any 
unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all 
judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, 
and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement 
with the authority responsible for collecting such tax liability, 
provided that the applicable Federal agency is aware of the unpaid 
Federal tax liability.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the applicable Federal agency 
has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation described in 
such subsection and has made a determination that such suspension or 
debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the Federal 
Government.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2367]]

    Sec. 8129.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of--
            (1) Executive Order No. 13175 (65 Fed. Reg. 67249; relating 
        to consultation and coordination with Indian Tribal 
        governments); or
            (2) section 1501.2(d)(2) of title 40, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.

    Sec. 8130.  During fiscal year 2020, any advance billing for 
background investigation services and related services purchased from 
activities financed using Defense Working Capital Funds shall be 
excluded from the calculation of cumulative advance billings under 
section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8131.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to transfer the National 
Reconnaissance Office to the Space Force.
    Sec. 8132. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations the reports required by section 596 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.

    Sec. 8133.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, to 
reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange rates, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by $81,559,000.

                                TITLE IX

                     OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$2,743,132,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$356,392,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$104,213,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$1,007,594,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2368]]

Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$34,812,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$11,370,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$3,599,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$16,428,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$202,644,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $5,624,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$20,092,038,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War

[[Page 133 STAT. 2369]]

on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$8,772,379,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $1,109,791,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $10,359,379,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $7,803,193,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $225,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021, shall be for payments to reimburse key cooperating nations for 
logistical, military, and other support, including access, provided to 
United States military and stability operations in Afghanistan and to 
counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reimbursements. Consultation. Determination. Time 
period. Notification.>> That such reimbursement payments may be made in 
such amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, and in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, may determine, based on documentation 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive upon 
the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 days following 
written notification to the appropriate congressional committees:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period. Notification.>> That these funds 
may be used for the purpose of providing specialized training and 
procuring supplies and specialized equipment and providing such supplies 
and loaning such equipment on a non-reimbursable basis to coalition 
forces supporting United States military and stability operations in 
Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and 15 
days following written notification to the appropriate congressional 
committees:  Provided further, That these funds may 
be <<NOTE: Jordan. Deadline. Notification.>> used to support the 
Government of Jordan in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may 
determine, to enhance the ability of the armed forces of Jordan to 
increase or sustain security along its borders, upon 15 days prior 
written notification to the congressional defense committees outlining 
the amounts intended to be provided and the nature of

[[Page 133 STAT. 2370]]

the expenses incurred:  Provided further, That of the funds provided 
under this heading, not to exceed $1,049,178,000 to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, shall be available to provide support and 
assistance to foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to 
conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or 
other Department of Defense security cooperation programs:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on the use of 
funds provided in this paragraph:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $37,592,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $23,036,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $8,707,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $29,758,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $83,291,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $176,909,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/

[[Page 133 STAT. 2371]]

Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

    For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', $4,199,978,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That such funds 
shall be available to the Secretary of Defense for the purpose of 
allowing the Commander, Combined Security Transition Command--
Afghanistan, or the Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of State, to the security forces of 
Afghanistan, including the provision of equipment, supplies, services, 
training, facility and infrastructure repair, renovation, construction, 
and funding:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
obligate and expend funds made available to the Department of Defense in 
this title for additional costs associated with existing projects 
previously funded with amounts provided under the heading ``Afghanistan 
Infrastructure Fund'' in prior Acts:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That such costs shall be limited to 
contract changes resulting from inflation, market fluctuation, rate 
adjustments, and other necessary contract actions to complete existing 
projects, and associated supervision and administration costs and costs 
for design during construction:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
may not use more than $50,000,000 under the authority provided in this 
section:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Reports.>> That the 
Secretary shall notify in advance such contract changes and adjustments 
in annual reports to the congressional defense committees:  Provided 
further, That the authority to provide assistance under this heading is 
in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign 
nations:  Provided further, That contributions of funds for the purposes 
provided herein from any person, foreign government, or international 
organization may be credited to this Fund, to remain available until 
expended, and used for such purposes:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees in writing upon the receipt 
and upon the obligation of any contribution, delineating the sources and 
amounts of the <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> funds received and the 
specific use of such contributions:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating 
from this appropriation account, notify the congressional defense 
committees in writing of the details of any such obligation:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary of Defense 
shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing and not 
fewer than 15 days prior to obligating funds for any proposed new 
projects or transfer of funds between budget sub-activity groups in 
excess of $20,000,000:  Provided further, That the United States may 
accept equipment procured using funds provided under this heading in 
this or prior Acts that was transferred to the security forces of 
Afghanistan and returned by such forces to the United States:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That equipment procured using funds 
provided under this heading in this or prior Acts, and not yet 
transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan or transferred to the 
security forces of Afghanistan and returned by such forces to the United 
States, may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
written notification to the congressional defense committees:  Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading, not less than 
$10,000,000 shall be for recruitment and retention of women in the 
Afghanistan National Security

[[Page 133 STAT. 2372]]

Forces, and the recruitment and training of female security personnel:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading and made 
available for the salaries and benefits of personnel of the Afghanistan 
Security Forces may only be used for personnel who are enrolled in the 
Afghanistan Personnel and Pay System:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

Counter-ISIS <<NOTE: Iraq. Syria.>> Train and Equip Fund

    For the ``Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Train and Equip 
Fund'', $1,195,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Coordination.>>  That such funds shall be available to 
the Secretary of Defense in coordination with the Secretary of State, to 
provide assistance, including training; equipment; logistics support, 
supplies, and services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation; 
construction for facility fortification and humane treatment; and 
sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
individuals participating, or preparing to participate in activities to 
counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and their affiliated or 
associated groups:  Provided further, That these funds may be used in 
such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may determine to enhance the 
border security of nations adjacent to conflict areas including Jordan, 
Lebanon, Egypt, and Tunisia resulting from actions of the Islamic State 
of Iraq and Syria:  Provided further, That 
amounts <<NOTE: Coordination. Notification.>> made available under this 
heading shall be available to provide assistance only for activities in 
a country designated by the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, as having a security mission to counter the 
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and following written notification to 
the congressional defense committees of such designation:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Assessment.>> Secretary of Defense shall 
ensure that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces or 
individuals, such elements or individuals are appropriately vetted, 
including at a minimum, assessing such elements for associations with 
terrorist groups or groups associated with the Government of Iran; and 
receiving commitments from such elements to promote respect for human 
rights and the rule of law:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  the Secretary of Defense shall, 
not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating from this appropriation 
account, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
details of any such obligation:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense may accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-
kind, from foreign governments, including the Government of Iraq and 
other entities, to carry out assistance authorized under this heading:  
Provided further, That contributions of funds for the purposes provided 
herein from any foreign government or other entity may be credited to 
this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
prioritize such contributions when providing any assistance for 
construction for facility fortification:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Waiver authority. Determination. Notification.>> Secretary 
of Defense may waive a provision of law relating to the acquisition of 
items and support services or sections 40 and 40A of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) if the Secretary determines that 
such provision of law would prohibit, restrict, delay

[[Page 133 STAT. 2373]]

or otherwise limit the provision of such assistance and a notice of and 
justification for such waiver is submitted to the congressional defense 
committees, the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of 
the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of 
the House of Representatives:  Provided further, That the United 
States <<NOTE: Notification.>> may accept equipment procured using funds 
provided under this heading, or under the heading, ``Iraq Train and 
Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, that was transferred to security forces, 
irregular forces, or groups participating, or preparing to participate 
in activities to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and 
returned by such forces or groups to the United States, and such 
equipment may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
written notification to the congressional defense committees:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Determination. Notification.>> equipment procured 
using funds provided under this heading, or under the heading, ``Iraq 
Train and Equip Fund'' in prior Acts, and not yet transferred to 
security forces, irregular forces, or groups participating, or preparing 
to participate in activities to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and 
Syria may be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense when 
determined by the Secretary to no longer be required for transfer to 
such forces or groups and upon written notification to the congressional 
defense committees:  Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Reports.>> Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly 
reports to the congressional defense committees on the use of funds 
provided under this heading, including, but not limited to, the number 
of individuals trained, the nature and scope of support and sustainment 
provided to each group or individual, the area of operations for each 
group, and the contributions of other countries, groups, or individuals: 
 Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$531,541,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$1,423,589,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $346,306,000, to remain available

[[Page 133 STAT. 2374]]

until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$148,682,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$1,080,504,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$95,153,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$116,429,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $204,814,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2022:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$351,250,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2375]]

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$20,589,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$851,310,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$201,671,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $934,758,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$3,748,801,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$438,064,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account

    For procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical and 
support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement items for the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces, $1,300,000,000, to

[[Page 133 STAT. 2376]]

remain available for obligation until September 30, 2022:  Provided, 
That the Chiefs of <<NOTE: Deadline. Assessment.>>  National Guard and 
Reserve components shall, not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
Act, individually submit to the congressional defense committees the 
modernization priority assessment for their respective National Guard or 
Reserve component:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available by this paragraph may be used to procure manned fixed wing 
aircraft, or procure or modify missiles, munitions, or ammunition:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $147,304,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $164,410,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $128,248,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $394,260,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$20,100,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2377]]

Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$347,746,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $153,100,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Inspector 
General'', $24,254,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 9001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title are in addition to amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2020.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 9002.  <<NOTE: Determination.>> Upon the determination of the 
Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national 
interest, the Secretary may, with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget, transfer up to $2,000,000,000 between the 
appropriations or funds made available to the Department of Defense in 
this title:  Provided, That the Secretary <<NOTE: Notification.>> shall 
notify the Congress promptly of each transfer made pursuant to the 
authority in this section:  Provided further, That the authority 
provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms 
and conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of this Act.

    Sec. 9003.  Supervision and administration costs and costs for 
design during construction associated with a construction project funded 
with appropriations available for operation and maintenance or the 
``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' provided in this Act and executed 
in direct support of overseas contingency operations in Afghanistan, may 
be obligated at the time a construction contract

[[Page 133 STAT. 2378]]

is awarded:  Provided, That, for the purpose of this section, 
supervision and administration costs and costs for design during 
construction include all in-house Government costs.
    Sec. 9004.  From funds made available in this title, the Secretary 
of Defense may purchase for use by military and civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense in the United States Central Command area of 
responsibility: (1) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 
per vehicle; and (2) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical 
security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to a limit of 
$450,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other limitations 
applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.
    Sec. 9005.  Not to exceed $5,000,000 of the amounts appropriated by 
this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to fund the 
Commanders' Emergency Response Program (CERP), for the purpose of 
enabling military commanders in Afghanistan to respond to urgent, small-
scale, humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within their 
areas of responsibility:  Provided, That each project (including any 
ancillary or related elements in connection with such project) executed 
under this authority shall not exceed <<NOTE: Time 
period. Reports.>> $2,000,000:  Provided further, That not later than 45 
days after the end of each 6 months of the fiscal year, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
regarding the source of funds and the allocation and use of funds during 
that 6-month period that were made available pursuant to the authority 
provided in this section or under any other provision of law for the 
purposes described herein:  Provided further, 
That, <<NOTE: Deadline. Time periods. Data submissions.>> not later than 
30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter, the Army shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees quarterly commitment, 
obligation, and expenditure data for the CERP in Afghanistan:  Provided 
further, That, <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> not less than 15 days 
before making funds available pursuant to the authority provided in this 
section or under any other provision of law for the purposes described 
herein for a project with a total anticipated cost for completion of 
$500,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a written notice containing each of the following:
            (1) The location, nature and purpose of the proposed 
        project, including how the project is intended to advance the 
        military campaign plan for the country in which it is to be 
        carried out.
            (2) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, and 
        completion date for the proposed project, including any other 
        CERP funding that has been or is anticipated to be contributed 
        to the completion of the project.
            (3) A <<NOTE: Plans.>> plan for the sustainment of the 
        proposed project, including the agreement with either the host 
        nation, a non-Department of Defense agency of the United States 
        Government or a third-party contributor to finance the 
        sustainment of the activities and maintenance of any equipment 
        or facilities to be provided through the proposed project.

    Sec. 9006.  Funds available to the Department of Defense for 
operation and maintenance may be used, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, to provide supplies, services, transportation, 
including airlift and sealift, and other logistical support to allied 
forces participating in a combined operation with the armed forces

[[Page 133 STAT. 2379]]

of the United States and coalition forces supporting military and 
stability operations in Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of 
Iraq and Syria:  Provided, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense 
committees regarding support provided under this section.

    Sec. 9007.  <<NOTE: Iraq. Afghanistan.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act shall 
be obligated or expended by the United States Government for a purpose 
as follows:
            (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Iraq.
            (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
        of Iraq.
            (3) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Afghanistan.

    Sec. 9008.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations 
promulgated to implement the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at 
New York on December 10, 1984):
            (1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 112 
        Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations prescribed 
        thereto, including regulations under part 208 of title 8, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 22, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
        Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in 
        the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public Law 
        109-148).

    Sec. 9009.  None of the funds provided for the ``Afghanistan 
Security Forces Fund'' (ASFF) may be obligated prior to the approval of 
a financial and activity plan by the Afghanistan Resources Oversight 
Council (AROC) of the Department of Defense:  Provided, That the AROC 
must approve the requirement and acquisition plan for any service 
requirements in excess of $50,000,000 annually and any non-standard 
equipment requirements in excess of $100,000,000 using ASFF:  Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Certification.>> Department of Defense must 
certify to the congressional defense committees that the AROC has 
convened and approved a process for ensuring compliance with the 
requirements in the preceding proviso and accompanying report language 
for the ASFF.

    Sec. 9010.  Funds made available in this title to the Department of 
Defense for operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
having an investment unit cost of not more than $250,000:  Provided, 
That, upon determination <<NOTE: Determination.>> by the Secretary of 
Defense that such action is necessary to meet the operational 
requirements of a Commander of a Combatant Command engaged in 
contingency operations overseas, such funds may be used to purchase 
items having an investment item unit cost of not more than $500,000.

    Sec. 9011.  Up to $500,000,000 of funds appropriated by this Act for 
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency in ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'' may be used to provide assistance to the Government of 
Jordan to support the armed forces of Jordan and to enhance security 
along its borders.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2380]]

    Sec. 9012.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'' may be used to procure or 
transfer man-portable air defense systems.
    Sec. 9013.  Of the amounts appropriated in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for the Defense 
Security Cooperation Agency, $250,000,000, of which $125,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, shall be for the Ukraine 
Security Assistance Initiative: 
<<NOTE: Coordination. Ukraine.>> Provided, That such funds shall be 
available to the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including training; 
equipment; lethal assistance; logistics support, supplies and services; 
sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and national 
security forces of Ukraine, and for replacement of any weapons or 
articles provided to the Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the 
United States:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available in 
this section, $50,000,000 shall be available only for lethal assistance 
described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 1250(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92):  
Provided further, That the Secretary 
of <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> Defense shall, not less than 15 
days prior to obligating funds provided under this heading, notify the 
congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such 
obligation:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>> That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, not less than 90 days after such notification is made, 
inform such committees if such funds have not been obligated and the 
reasons therefor:  Provided further, That the United States may accept 
equipment procured using funds provided under this heading in this or 
prior Acts that was transferred to the security forces of Ukraine and 
returned by such forces to the United States:  Provided further, That 
equipment <<NOTE: Notification.>> procured using funds provided under 
this heading in this or prior Acts, and not yet transferred to the 
military or National Security Forces of Ukraine or returned by such 
forces to the United States, may be treated as stocks of the Department 
of Defense upon written notification to the congressional defense 
committees:  Provided further, That amounts made available by this 
section are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 9014.  <<NOTE: Ukraine.>> Funds appropriated in this title 
shall be available for replacement of funds for items provided to the 
Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the United States to the 
extent specifically provided for in section 9013 of this Act.

    Sec. 9015.  None of the funds made available by this Act under 
section 9013 may be used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense 
systems.
    Sec. 9016.  Equipment procured using funds provided in prior Acts 
under the heading ``Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund'' for the program 
authorized by section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
Law 113-291), and not yet transferred to authorized recipients may be 
transferred to foreign security forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
individuals, authorized to receive assistance using amounts provided 
under the heading ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'' in this 
Act: <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  Provided, That such equipment 
may be transferred 15 days following written notification to the 
congressional defense committees.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2381]]

    Sec. 9017. <<NOTE: Pakistan. Coordination. Certification.>> (a) None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under 
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for payments 
under section 1233 of Public Law 110-181 for reimbursement to the 
Government of Pakistan may be made available unless the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that the Government of Pakistan is--
            (1) cooperating with the United States in counterterrorism 
        efforts against the Haqqani Network, the Quetta Shura Taliban, 
        Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al Qaeda, and other 
        domestic and foreign terrorist organizations, including taking 
        steps to end support for such groups and prevent them from 
        basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out cross border 
        attacks into neighboring countries;
            (2) not supporting terrorist activities against United 
        States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's 
        military and intelligence agencies are not intervening extra-
        judicially into political and judicial processes in Pakistan;
            (3) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) networks 
        and interdicting precursor chemicals used in the manufacture of 
        IEDs;
            (4) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related material 
        and expertise;
            (5) implementing policies to protect judicial independence 
        and due process of law;
            (6) issuing visas in a timely manner for United States 
        visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and assistance 
        programs in Pakistan; and
            (7) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
        detainees, internally displaced persons, and other Pakistani 
        civilians affected by the conflict.

    (b) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>  The Secretary of Defense, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
congressional defense committees that it is in the national security 
interest to do so:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Reports.>> if the Secretary 
of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, exercises such 
waiver authority, the Secretaries shall report to the congressional 
defense committees on both the justification for the waiver and on the 
requirements of this section that the Government of Pakistan was not 
able to meet:  Provided further, That such report may be submitted in 
classified form if necessary.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 9018.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
Act, $250,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense 
and made available for transfer only to the operation and maintenance, 
military personnel, and procurement accounts, to improve near-term 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities and related 
processing, exploitation, and dissemination functions of the Department 
of Defense:  Provided, That the transfer authority provided in this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
elsewhere in this Act: <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Provided further, That not 
later than 30 days prior to exercising the transfer authority provided 
in this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the 
congressional defense committees on the proposed

[[Page 133 STAT. 2382]]

uses of these funds:  Provided further, That the funds provided in this 
section may not be transferred to any program, project, or activity 
specifically limited or denied by this Act:  Provided further, That such 
funds may not be obligated for new start efforts:  Provided further, 
That amounts made available by this section are designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Termination date.>> the authority to provide funding under 
this section shall terminate on September 30, 2020.

    Sec. 9019.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
with respect to Syria in contravention of the War Powers Resolution (50 
U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the introduction of United States 
armed or military forces into hostilities in Syria, into situations in 
Syria where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by 
the circumstances, or into Syrian territory, airspace, or waters while 
equipped for combat, in contravention of the congressional consultation 
and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 4 of that law (50 U.S.C. 
1542 and 1543).
    Sec. 9020. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  None of the funds in this Act may be 
made available for the transfer of additional C-130 cargo aircraft to 
the Afghanistan National Security Forces or the Afghanistan Air Force 
until the Department of Defense provides a report to the congressional 
defense committees of the Afghanistan Air Force's medium airlift 
requirements. The report should identify Afghanistan's ability to 
utilize and maintain existing medium lift aircraft in the inventory and 
the best alternative platform, if necessary, to provide additional 
support to the Afghanistan Air Force's current medium airlift capacity.

    Sec. 9021. <<NOTE: Afghanistan. Certification. Deadline.>>   Funds 
available for the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund may be used to 
provide limited training, equipment, and other assistance that would 
otherwise be prohibited by 10 U.S.C. 362 to a unit of the security 
forces of Afghanistan only if the Secretary certifies to the 
congressional defense committees, within 30 days of a decision to 
provide such assistance, that (1) a denial of such assistance would 
present significant risk to U.S. or coalition forces or significantly 
undermine United States national security objectives in Afghanistan; and 
(2) the Secretary has sought a commitment by the Government of 
Afghanistan to take all necessary corrective steps:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That such certification shall be 
accompanied by a report describing: (1) the information relating to the 
gross violation of human rights; (2) the circumstances that necessitated 
the provision of such assistance; (3) the Afghan security force unit 
involved; (4) the assistance provided and the assistance withheld; and 
(5) the corrective steps to be taken by the Government of Afghanistan:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That every 120 days after the 
initial report an additional report shall be submitted detailing the 
status of any corrective steps taken by the Government of Afghanistan:  
Provided further, That if the Government <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of 
Afghanistan has not initiated necessary corrective steps within one year 
of the certification, the authority under this section to provide 
assistance to such unit shall no longer apply: <<NOTE: Reports.>>  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall submit a report to such 
committees detailing the final disposition of the case by the Government 
of Afghanistan.

    Sec. 9022. <<NOTE: Taliban.>>  None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be made available for any member of the Taliban except to 
support a reconciliation activity that includes the participation of 
members

[[Page 133 STAT. 2383]]

of the Government of Afghanistan, does not restrict the participation of 
women, and is authorized by section 1218 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 9023.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts:  Provided, 
That such amounts are designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985:
            ``Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', 2018/2020, 
        $30,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2018/2020, $32,300,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide: DSCA Security 
        Cooperation'', 2019/2020, $55,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide: Coalition Support 
        Fund'', 2019/2020, $30,000,000;
            ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 2019/2020, 
        $396,000,000;
            ``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'', 2019/2020, 
        $450,000,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $13,176,000;
            ``Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', 2019/2021, 
        $52,477,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Army'', 2019/2021, $8,750,000;
            ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps'', 2019/
        2021, $16,574,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $24,713,000; 
        and
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2019/2021, $25,752,000.

    Sec. 9024.  Nothing in this Act may be construed as authorizing the 
use of force against Iran.

                                 TITLE X

                         NATURAL DISASTER RELIEF

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$427,000,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and earthquakes occurring 
in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $394,000,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and 
earthquakes occurring in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such

[[Page 133 STAT. 2384]]

amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $110,000,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and 
earthquakes occurring in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $45,700,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and 
earthquakes occurring in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               PROCUREMENT

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'' 
$75,015,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and earthquakes occurring 
in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'' 
$73,323,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and earthquakes occurring 
in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'' 
$204,448,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and earthquakes occurring 
in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2385]]

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'' 
$77,974,000, for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and earthquakes occurring 
in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'' $130,444,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and flooding and 
earthquakes occurring in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'' for 
the Navy Working Capital Fund, $233,500,000, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and 
flooding and earthquakes occurring in fiscal year 2019:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 10001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under each heading in this title shall only be used for the 
purposes specifically described under that heading.
    This division may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

 DIVISION B-- <<NOTE: Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
  Appropriations Act, 2020.>> COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED 
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2020.>>  I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, to carry out activities 
associated with facilitating, attracting, and retaining business 
investment in the United States, and for engaging in trade promotional 
activities abroad, including expenses of grants and cooperative 
agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of

[[Page 133 STAT. 2386]]

United States firms, without regard to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 
44, United States Code; full medical coverage for dependent members of 
immediate families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of employees of 
the International Trade Administration between two points abroad, 
without regard to section 40118 of title 49, United States Code; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and 
expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction 
of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; payment 
of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 
section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such claims arise in 
foreign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for official representation 
expenses abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use 
abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining insurance on 
official motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, $521,250,000, of which 
$70,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That $11,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be retained and used by 
the International Trade Administration, notwithstanding section 3302 of 
title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That, of amounts 
provided under this heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be for 
China antidumping and countervailing duty enforcement and compliance 
activities:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Applicability. Assessments.>> the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities; and that for the 
purpose of this Act, contributions under the provisions of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 shall include payment for 
assessments for services provided as part of these activities.

                     Bureau of Industry and Security

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the 
first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $13,500 for 
official representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to 
informers under the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle B of 
title XVII of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et 
seq.), and as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 
Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to any price 
limitation otherwise established by law, $127,652,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Applicability.>> the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 
108(c)

[[Page 133 STAT. 2387]]

of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities:  
Provided further, That payments and contributions collected and accepted 
for materials or services provided as part of such activities may be 
retained for use in covering the cost of such activities, and for 
providing information to the public with respect to the export 
administration and national security activities of the Department of 
Commerce and other export control programs of the United States and 
other governments.

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade adjustment 
assistance, and for grants authorized by sections 27 and 28 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722 and 
3723), $292,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$33,000,000 shall be for grants under such section 27 and $2,000,000 
shall be for grants under such section 28.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $40,500,000:  Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title I 
of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, sections 27 and 28 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation 
Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722 and 3723), and the Community Emergency 
Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                      minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprises, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $42,000,000, of which not more than $15,500,000 
shall be available for overhead expenses, including salaries and 
expenses, rent, utilities, and information technology services.

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$107,990,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2388]]

                          Bureau of the Census

                      current surveys and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $274,000,000: 
 Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
promotion, outreach, and marketing activities.

                     periodic censuses and programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics for periodic censuses and programs 
provided for by law, $7,284,319,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities:  Provided 
further, That within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the Bureau of the Census:  Provided further, That of the 
amount provided under this heading, $2,500,000,000 is designated by the 
Congress as being for the 2020 Census pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(G) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $40,441,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall 
charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum management, 
analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees shall be 
retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum 
services, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting 
collections all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other 
Government agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications 
research, engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

     public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available for 
the administration of all open grants until their expiration.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2389]]

                United States Patent and Trademark Office

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of suits 
instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual 
Property and Director of the USPTO, $3,450,681,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and 
surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law are 
received during fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2020, should the total amount of such offsetting 
collections be less than $3,450,681,000, this amount shall be reduced 
accordingly:  Provided further, That any amount received in excess of 
$3,450,681,000 in fiscal year 2020 and deposited in the Patent and 
Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Spending plan.>> That the Director of USPTO 
shall submit a spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available 
by the preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2020 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 2020 from the amounts made available for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for 
USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement 
health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in 
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the Employees FEHB 
Fund, as appropriate, and shall be available for the authorized purposes 
of those accounts:  Provided further, That any differences between the 
present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series benefit 
letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's specific use shall 
be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial statements, where 
applicable:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and collected by USPTO are 
available for USPTO only pursuant

[[Page 133 STAT. 2390]]

to section 42(c) of title 35, United States Code, as amended by section 
22 of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  Provided 
further, That within the amounts appropriated, $2,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), $754,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund'':  Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That 
NIST may provide local transportation for summer undergraduate research 
fellowship program participants.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
$162,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $146,000,000 
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, and of 
which $16,000,000 shall be for the National Network for Manufacturing 
Innovation (also known as ``Manufacturing USA'').

                   construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, and for renovation and maintenance of existing 
facilities, not otherwise provided for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, as authorized by sections 13 through 15 of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-
278e), $118,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Budget estimates. 15 USC 1513b note.>> That the 
Secretary of Commerce shall include in the budget justification 
materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in support of the 
Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the budget of the 
President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an 
estimate for each National Institute of Standards and Technology 
construction project having a total multi-year program cost of more than 
$5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget justification materials shall 
include an estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such project 
for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal years.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including

[[Page 133 STAT. 2391]]

maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; pilot programs 
for state-led fisheries management, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law; grants, contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations 
for the purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative 
agreements; and relocation of facilities, $3,763,939,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That fees and donations 
received by the National Ocean Service for the management of national 
marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for the salaries and 
expenses associated with those activities, notwithstanding section 3302 
of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That in addition, 
$174,774,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'', which shall only be used for fishery activities 
related to the Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant Program; Fisheries Data 
Collections, Surveys and Assessments; and Interjurisdictional Fisheries 
Grants:  Provided further, That not to exceed $62,070,000 shall be for 
payment to the Department of Commerce Working Capital Fund:  Provided 
further, That of the $3,956,213,000 provided for in direct obligations 
under this heading, $3,763,939,000 is appropriated from the general 
fund, $174,774,000 is provided by transfer, and $17,500,000 is derived 
from recoveries of prior year obligations:  Provided further, That any 
deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act), or any use of deobligated balances 
of funds provided under this heading in previous years, shall be subject 
to the procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That in addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and 
for payments for the medical care of retired personnel and their 
dependents under the Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), 
such sums as may be necessary:  Provided <<NOTE: Reports.>> further, 
That the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration submit to Congress a report on existing supercomputing 
capacity and needs of the Administration and on the incremental 
improvement to operational weather forecasts that would result from a 
significant investment in additional compute capacity.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, $1,530,890,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022, except that funds provided for acquisition and 
construction of vessels and construction of facilities shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the $1,543,890,000 provided 
for in direct obligations under this heading, $1,530,890,000 is 
appropriated from the general fund and $13,000,000 is provided from 
recoveries of prior year obligations:  Provided further, That any 
deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities in the 
explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the matter preceding 
division A of this consolidated Act), or any use of deobligated balances 
of funds provided under this heading in previous years, shall be subject 
to the procedures

[[Page 133 STAT. 2392]]

set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided <<NOTE: Budget 
estimates. 15 USC 1513a note.>>  further, That the Secretary of Commerce 
shall include in budget justification materials that the Secretary 
submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as 
submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition or construction 
project having a total of more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the 
budget justification shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years:  Provided further, That, within the amounts appropriated, 
$1,302,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' 
account for activities associated with carrying out investigations and 
audits related to satellite procurement, acquisition and construction.

                     pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, <<NOTE: Guidelines.>> That, of the funds provided 
herein, the Secretary of Commerce may issue grants to the States of 
Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the 
Federally recognized tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast 
(including Alaska), for projects necessary for conservation of salmon 
and steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or endangered, 
or that are identified by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for 
maintaining populations necessary for exercise of tribal treaty fishing 
rights or native subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific 
coastal salmon and steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be 
developed by the Secretary of Commerce:  Provided further, That all 
funds shall be allocated based on scientific and other merit principles 
and shall not be available for marketing activities:  Provided further, 
That funds disbursed to States shall be subject to a matching 
requirement of funds or documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 
percent of the Federal funds.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $349,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                    fisheries finance program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2020, obligations of direct loans may not exceed 
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$100,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the management of the Department of 
Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed $4,500 for 
official reception and representation, $61,000,000:  Provided,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2393]]

That no employee of the Department of Commerce may be detailed or 
assigned from a bureau or office funded by this Act or any other Act to 
offices within the Office of the Secretary of the Department of Commerce 
for more than 30 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing 
bureau or office is fully reimbursed for the salary and expenses of the 
employee for the entire period of assignment using funds provided under 
this heading:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Expenditure plan.>>  of 
the funds provided under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be withheld 
from obligation until the Secretary updates and resubmits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate the plan for expenditure described in the third proviso under the 
heading ``Bureau of the Census--Periodic Censuses and Programs'' in 
division C of Public Law 116-6.

                      renovation and modernization

    For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization of the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $35,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
6413(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 
(Public Law 112-96), $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
from the amounts provided under this heading, shall be derived from the 
Public Safety Trust Fund for activities associated with carrying out 
investigations and audits related to the First Responder Network 
Authority (FirstNet).

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  <<NOTE: Certification.>> During the current fiscal year, 
applicable appropriations and funds made available to the Department of 
Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities specified in 
the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the 
manner prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may 
be used for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the 
certification of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
such payments are in the public interest.

    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers:  Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation

[[Page 133 STAT. 2394]]

or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That 
the Secretary of Commerce shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
at least 15 days in advance of the acquisition or disposal of any 
capital asset (including land, structures, and equipment) not 
specifically provided for in this Act or any other law appropriating 
funds for the Department of Commerce.

    Sec. 104.  <<NOTE: Incorporation by reference. 33 USC 878a note.>>  
The requirements set forth by section 105 of the Commerce, Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-
55), as amended by section 105 of title I of division B of Public Law 
113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable with respect 
to fiscal year 2020:  Provided, That the life cycle cost for the Joint 
Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000 and the life cycle cost for 
the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series Program 
is $10,828,059,000.

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
may furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support the 
operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that persons, firms, or 
organizations are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings 
Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other buildings, the 
maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been delegated to 
the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
reimbursement for services provided under this section or the authority 
under which the use or occupancy of the space is authorized, up to 
$200,000, shall be credited to the appropriation or fund which initially 
bears the costs of such services.
    Sec. 106.  <<NOTE: Child pornography.>>  Nothing in this title shall 
be construed to prevent a grant recipient from deterring child 
pornography, copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over 
its networks.

    Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration is authorized to use, with their consent, with 
reimbursement and subject to the limits of available appropriations, the 
land, services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of any department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States, or of any State, local 
government, Indian tribal government, Territory, or possession, or of 
any political subdivision thereof, or of any foreign government or 
international organization, for purposes related to carrying out the 
responsibilities of any statute administered by the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration.
    Sec. 108.  The National Technical Information Service shall not 
charge any customer for a copy of any report or document generated by 
the Legislative Branch unless the Service has provided information to 
the customer on how an electronic copy of such report or document may be 
accessed and downloaded for free online. Should a customer still require 
the Service to provide a printed or digital copy of the report or 
document, the charge shall be limited to recovering the Service's cost 
of processing, reproducing, and delivering such report or document.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2395]]

    Sec. 109.  <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>> To carry out the 
responsibilities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA), the Administrator of NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on a non-reimbursable 
basis land, services, equipment, personnel, and facilities provided by; 
and (3) receive and expend funds made available on a consensual basis 
from: a Federal agency, State or subdivision thereof, local government, 
tribal government, territory, or possession or any subdivisions thereof: 
 Provided, That funds received for permitting and related regulatory 
activities pursuant to this section shall be deposited under the heading 
``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, 
and Facilities'' and shall remain available until September 30, 2022, 
for such purposes:  Provided further, That all funds within this section 
and their corresponding uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.

    Sec. 110.  Amounts provided by this Act or by any prior 
appropriations Act that remain available for obligation, for necessary 
expenses of the programs of the Economics and Statistics Administration 
of the Department of Commerce, including amounts provided for programs 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall 
be available for expenses of cooperative agreements with appropriate 
entities, including any Federal, State, or local governmental unit, or 
institution of higher education, to aid and promote statistical, 
research, and methodology activities which further the purposes for 
which such amounts have been made available.
    Sec. 111. <<NOTE: 15 USC 1521a.>> (a) There is hereby established in 
the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ``Department 
of Commerce Nonrecurring Expenses Fund'' (the Fund):  Provided, That 
unobligated balances of expired discretionary funds appropriated for 
this or any succeeding fiscal year from the General Fund of the Treasury 
to the Department of Commerce by this or any other Act may be 
transferred (not later than the end of the fifth fiscal year after the 
last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the purposes for 
which appropriated) into the Fund:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in the Fund shall be available until expended, and in addition 
to such other funds as may be available for such purposes, for 
information and business technology system modernization and facilities 
infrastructure improvements necessary for the operation of the 
Department, subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> amounts in the 
Fund may be obligated only after the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in 
advance of the planned use of funds.

    (b) In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this Act, 
there is <<NOTE: Reports. Exports and imports. Autos and automotive 
parts.>> appropriated $20,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2022, to the Fund for necessary expenses for a business application 
system modernization.

    Sec. 112.  Not later than thirty days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, using amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title for the Bureau of Industry and Security for 
operations and administration, the Secretary of Commerce shall--
            (1) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  publish in the 
        Federal Register the report on the findings of the investigation 
        into the effect on national security

[[Page 133 STAT. 2396]]

        of imports of automobiles and automotive parts that the 
        Secretary initiated on May 23, 2018, under section 232(b) of the 
        Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)), as required 
        under paragraph (3)(B) of that section; and
            (2) submit to Congress any portion of the report that 
        contains classified information, which may be viewed only by 
        Members of Congress and their staff with appropriate security 
        clearances.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

TITLE II <<NOTE: Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2020.>> 

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $114,740,000, of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for security 
and construction of Department of Justice facilities shall remain 
available until expended.

                 justice information sharing technology

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, including 
planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$33,875,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this account, from 
funds available to the Department of Justice for information technology, 
to remain available until expended, for enterprise-wide information 
technology initiatives:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
in the preceding proviso is in addition to any other transfer authority 
contained in this Act:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
the first proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                 Executive Office for Immigration Review

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the administration of immigration-related 
activities of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, $672,966,000, 
of which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Executive 
Office for Immigration Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration 
Examinations Fee'' account, and of which not less than $18,000,000 shall 
be available for services and activities provided by the Legal 
Orientation Program:  Provided, That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the 
total amount made available under this heading shall remain available 
until expended.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2397]]

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$105,000,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                     United States Parole Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $13,308,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Term extension.>> That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the expiration of a 
term of office of a Commissioner, the Commissioner may continue to act 
until a successor has been appointed.

                            Legal Activities

             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; the administration of pardon and clemency petitions; and rent 
of private or Government-owned space in the District of Columbia, 
$920,000,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the 
amount provided for INTERPOL Washington dues payments, not to exceed 
$685,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, That 
of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be 
available to INTERPOL Washington for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>> notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for litigation activities of the Civil 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries 
and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations 
for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be 
necessary to respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, such sums as may be necessary shall be available to the 
Civil Rights Division for salaries and expenses associated with the 
election monitoring program under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to reimburse the Office of Personnel 
Management for such salaries and expenses:  Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided under this heading for the election monitoring 
program, $3,390,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated, not less than $193,715,000 
shall be available for the Criminal Division, including related expenses 
for the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty Program.

    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National

[[Page 133 STAT. 2398]]

Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $13,000,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $166,755,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection (and 
estimated to be $141,000,000 in fiscal year 2020), shall be retained and 
used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
$25,755,000.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$2,254,541,000:  Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to 
exceed $7,200 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Human 
trafficking.>> That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That each United States Attorney 
shall establish or participate in a task force on human trafficking.

                    united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $227,229,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to the United 
States Trustee System Fund and amounts herein appropriated shall be 
available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds due 
depositors:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, fees deposited into the Fund pursuant to section 589a(b) of 
title 28, United States Code (as limited by section 1004(b) of the 
Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 (division B of Public Law 115-72)), 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation 
and shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, That to 
the extent that fees deposited into the Fund in fiscal year 2020, net of 
amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, exceed $227,229,000, 
those excess amounts shall be available in future fiscal years only to 
the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced (1) as such fees are received during fiscal year 2020, net of 
amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, (estimated at 
$309,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any remaining general fund 
appropriations can be derived from amounts deposited in the Fund in 
previous fiscal years that are not otherwise appropriated, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at $0.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2399]]

       salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,335,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private counsel 
expenses, including advances, and for expenses of foreign counsel, 
$270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for protected witness 
safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and maintenance 
of armored and other vehicles for witness security caravans; and not to 
exceed $18,000,000 is for the purchase, installation, maintenance, and 
upgrade of secure telecommunications equipment and a secure automated 
information network to store and retrieve the identities and locations 
of protected witnesses:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading may not be transferred pursuant to section 205 of this Act.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$16,000,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General 
that emergent circumstances require additional funding for conflict 
resolution and violence prevention activities of the Community Relations 
Service, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community 
Relations Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal 
year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of 
section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, $20,514,000, to be 
derived from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$1,430,000,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, and not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2400]]

                              construction

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized by the 
United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related support, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the 
custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by section 
4013 of title 18, United States Code, $1,867,461,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be considered ``funds appropriated for State and local law 
enforcement assistance'' pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That the United States Marshals Service 
shall be responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and Alien 
Transportation System.

                       National Security Division

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the National 
Security Division, $110,000,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 for 
information technology systems shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That notwithstanding section 205 of 
this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for the activities of the 
National Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking organizations, transnational organized crime, and money 
laundering organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-
governmental agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
engaged in the investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in 
transnational organized crime and drug trafficking, $550,458,000, of 
which $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
any amounts obligated from appropriations under this heading may be used 
under authorities available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2401]]

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States, $9,467,902,000, of which not to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $284,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, furniture, 
and information technology requirements, related to construction or 
acquisition of buildings, facilities, and sites by purchase, or as 
otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification, and extension of 
federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects; 
and operation and maintenance of secure work environment facilities and 
secure networking capabilities; $485,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to section 530C of title 28, United 
States Code; and expenses for conducting drug education and training 
programs, including travel and related expenses for participants in such 
programs and the distribution of items of token value that promote the 
goals of such programs, $2,279,153,000, of which not to exceed 
$75,000,000 shall remain available until expended and not to exceed 
$90,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

           Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, for training of State and local law enforcement agencies 
with or without reimbursement, including training in connection with the 
training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants 
detection; and for provision of laboratory assistance to State and local 
law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $1,400,000,000, 
of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for 
the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 
18, United States Code, and not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
herein shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for 
relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 
18, United States Code:  Provided further, That such funds shall be 
available to investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations 
for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under

[[Page 133 STAT. 2402]]

section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
no funds made available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer 
the functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to other agencies or Departments.

                          Federal Prison System

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical assistance 
and advice on corrections related issues to foreign governments, 
$7,470,000,000 of which not less than $75,000,000 shall be for the 
programs and activities authorized by the First Step Act of 2018 (Public 
Law 115-391): <<NOTE: 42 USC 250a.>>  Provided, That the Attorney 
General may transfer to the Department of Health and Human Services such 
amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures by that Department 
for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal and correctional 
institutions:  Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal agent or 
fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the amounts payable to 
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, furnish health 
services to individuals committed to the custody of the Federal Prison 
System:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
necessary operations:  Provided further, That, of the amounts provided 
for contract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended to make payments in advance for grants, 
contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses:  Provided 
further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System may accept 
donated property and services relating to the operation of the prison 
card program from a not-for-profit entity which has operated such 
program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-profit 
entity furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison System 
relating to the operation of pre-release services, halfway houses, or 
other custodial facilities.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites, and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$308,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $181,000,000 
shall be available only for costs related to construction of new 
facilities:  Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
for work performed under this appropriation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2403]]

                 federal prison industries, incorporated

     <<NOTE: Contracts.>> The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, 
is hereby authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of 
funds and borrowing authority available, and in accord with the law, and 
to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, 
as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget 
for the current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its administrative 
expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to be determined 
in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed accounting 
system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
claims, and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or produced, 
including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in connection with 
acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
protection, or disposition of facilities and other property belonging to 
the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women, as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 
U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control and 
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the 
Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 
Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the 
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (34 U.S.C. 11101 
et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the 
Rape Survivor Child Custody Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22) (``the 2015 
Act''); and the Abolish Human Trafficking Act (Public Law 115-392); and 
for related victims services, $502,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $435,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
amounts available for obligation in this Act from the Fund established 
by section 1402 of chapter XIV

[[Page 133 STAT. 2404]]

of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), notwithstanding 
section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and merged with the amounts 
otherwise made available under this heading:  Provided, That except as 
otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 5 percent of funds made 
available under this heading may be used for expenses related to 
evaluation, training, and technical assistance:  Provided further, That 
of the <<NOTE: Grants.>> amount provided--
            (1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
            (2) $37,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
        grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
        stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (3) $2,500,000 is for the National Institute of Justice and 
        the Bureau of Justice Statistics for research, evaluation, and 
        statistics of violence against women and related issues 
        addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence Against 
        Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, Evaluation and 
        Statistics'' for administration by the Office of Justice 
        Programs;
            (4) $11,500,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
        to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
        violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
        assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; 
        programs to engage men and youth in preventing such violence; 
        and assistance to middle and high school students through 
        education and other services related to such violence:  
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the 
        1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be 
        available for this program:  Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the total amount available for this grant program shall be 
        available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015 of the 1968 Act:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Applicability. Grants.>> That the definitions 
        and grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall 
        apply to this program;
            (5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
        as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is 
        for a homicide reduction initiative;
            (6) $38,000,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, as 
        authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $43,500,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
        abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
        40295 of the 1994 Act;
            (8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
        against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
        2005 Act;
            (9) $46,000,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
            (10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to end 
        violence against and abuse of women in later life, as authorized 
        by section 40801 of the 1994 Act;
            (11) $17,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
        justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act:  
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and section 41002

[[Page 133 STAT. 2405]]

        of the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall 
        be available for this program;
            (12) $6,000,000 is for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, as 
        authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
        against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2005 Act:  Provided, That such funds may be transferred to 
        ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs;
            (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
        training and technical assistance on issues relating to sexual 
        assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women;
            (16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal governments 
        in exercising special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction, 
        as authorized by section 904 of the 2013 Act:  Provided, That 
        the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of the 1994 Act shall 
        apply to this program; and
            (17) $1,500,000 is for the purposes authorized under the 
        2015 Act.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                   research, evaluation and statistics

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and 
Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-21); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
405); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the 
Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act 
of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our 
Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle D of title II of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); 
the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); the 
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) 
(``the 2013 Act''); and other programs, $79,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which--
            (1) $43,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics programs, 
        and other activities, as authorized by part C of title I of the 
        1968 Act; and
            (2) $36,000,000 is for research, development, and evaluation 
        programs, and other activities as authorized by part B of title 
        I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D of title II of the 2002 Act, of 
        which $5,000,000 is for research targeted toward developing a 
        better understanding of the domestic radicalization phenomenon, 
        and advancing evidence-based strategies for effective

[[Page 133 STAT. 2406]]

        intervention and prevention; $1,000,000 is for research to study 
        the root causes of school violence to include the impact and 
        effectiveness of grants made under the STOP School Violence Act; 
        $1,000,000 is for a national study to understand the responses 
        of law enforcement to sex trafficking of minors; and $2,000,000 
        is for a national center on forensics.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh 
Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Second Chance 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-403); 
the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Mentally Ill 
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement 
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198) 
(``CARA''); the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 
114-324); Kevin and Avonte's Law (division Q of Public Law 115-141) 
(``Kevin and Avonte's Law''); the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act of 2018 
(title III of division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the Keep Young 
Athletes Safe Act''); the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 (title V of 
division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the STOP School Violence Act''); 
the Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of Public Law 115-141); 
the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-185); the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act 
(Public Law 115-271); and the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-391); and other programs, $1,892,000,000, to remain 
available until expended as follows--
            (1) $547,210,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
        Assistance Grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E of 
        title I of the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and the 
        special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g) of title I of 
        the 1968 Act shall not apply for purposes of this Act), of 
        which, notwithstanding such subpart 1, $12,000,000 is for the 
        Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Initiative on Preventing 
        Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer Resilience and 
        Survivability (VALOR), $7,500,000 is for an initiative to 
        support evidence-based policing, $8,000,000 is for an initiative 
        to

[[Page 133 STAT. 2407]]

        enhance prosecutorial decision-making, $2,400,000 is for the 
        operationalization, maintenance and expansion of the National 
        Missing and Unidentified Persons System, $2,500,000 is for an 
        academic based training initiative to improve police-based 
        responses to people with mental illness or developmental 
        disabilities, $2,000,000 is for a student loan repayment 
        assistance program pursuant to section 952 of Public Law 110-
        315, $15,500,000 is for prison rape prevention and prosecution 
        grants to States and units of local government, and other 
        programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (Public Law 108-79), $2,000,000 is for a grant program 
        authorized by Kevin and Avonte's Law, $3,000,000 is for a 
        regional law enforcement technology initiative, $20,000,000 is 
        for grants authorized under the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant 
        Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-185), $2,000,000 is 
        for a grant to provide a drug field testing and training 
        initiative, $5,500,000 is for the Capital Litigation Improvement 
        Grant Program, as authorized by section 426 of Public Law 108-
        405, and for grants for wrongful conviction review, $2,000,000 
        is for grants to States and units of local government to deploy 
        managed access systems to combat contraband cell phone use in 
        prison, $1,000,000 is for a collaborative mental health and 
        anti-recidivism initiative, $100,000,000 is for grants for law 
        enforcement activities associated with the presidential 
        nominating conventions, $2,000,000 is for a program to improve 
        juvenile indigent defense, $8,000,000 is for community-based 
        violence prevention initiatives, and $3,000,000 is for a 
        national center for restorative justice;
            (2) $244,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)):  Provided, That no 
        jurisdiction shall request compensation for any cost greater 
        than the actual cost for Federal immigration and other detainees 
        housed in State and local detention facilities;
            (3) $85,000,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
        trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 
        106-386, for programs authorized under Public Law 109-164, or 
        programs authorized under Public Law 113-4;
            (4) $14,000,000 for economic, high technology, white collar, 
        and Internet crime prevention grants, including as authorized by 
        section 401 of Public Law 110-403, of which $2,500,000 is for 
        competitive grants that help State and local law enforcement 
        tackle intellectual property thefts, and $2,000,000 for a 
        competitive grant program for training students in computer 
        forensics and digital investigation;
            (5) $20,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
        authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
            (6) $27,500,000 for the Patrick Leahy Bulletproof Vest 
        Partnership Grant Program, as authorized by section 2501 of 
        title I of the 1968 Act:  Provided, That $1,500,000 is 
        transferred directly to the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards for research, 
        testing and evaluation programs;
            (7) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender Public Website;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2408]]

            (8) $78,290,000 for grants to States to upgrade criminal and 
        mental health records for the National Instant Criminal 
        Background Check System, of which no less than $25,000,000 shall 
        be for grants made under the authorities of the NICS Improvement 
        Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180) and Fix NICS Act of 
        2018;
            (9) $30,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
        Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (10) $132,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
        activities, of which--
                    (A) $102,000,000 is for the purposes authorized 
                under section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination 
                Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-546) (the Debbie Smith DNA 
                Backlog Grant Program):  Provided, That up to 4 percent 
                of funds made available under this paragraph may be used 
                for the purposes described in the DNA Training and 
                Education for Law Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, 
                and Court Officers program (Public Law 108-405, section 
                303);
                    (B) $19,000,000 for other local, State, and Federal 
                forensic activities;
                    (C) $7,000,000 is for the purposes described in the 
                Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant 
                Program (Public Law 108-405, section 412); and
                    (D) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam 
                Program grants, including as authorized by section 304 
                of Public Law 108-405;
            (11) $48,000,000 for a grant program for community-based 
        sexual assault response reform;
            (12) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
        program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
            (13) $38,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes;
            (14) $90,000,000 for offender reentry programs and research, 
        as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
        199) and by the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2018 
        (Public Law 115-391), without regard to the time limitations 
        specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to exceed 
        $6,000,000 is for a program to improve State, local, and tribal 
        probation or parole supervision efforts and strategies, 
        $5,000,000 is for Children of Incarcerated Parents 
        Demonstrations to enhance and maintain parental and family 
        relationships for incarcerated parents as a reentry or 
        recidivism reduction strategy, and $4,500,000 is for additional 
        replication sites employing the Project HOPE Opportunity 
        Probation with Enforcement model implementing swift and certain 
        sanctions in probation, and for a research project on the 
        effectiveness of the model:  Provided, That up to $7,500,000 of 
        funds made available in this paragraph may be used for 
        performance-based awards for Pay for Success projects, of which 
        up to $5,000,000 shall be for Pay for Success programs 
        implementing the Permanent Supportive Housing Model;
            (15) $67,500,000 for initiatives to improve police-community 
        relations, of which $22,500,000 is for a competitive matching 
        grant program for purchases of body-worn cameras for State, 
        local and Tribal law enforcement, $28,000,000 is for a justice 
        reinvestment initiative, for activities related to criminal 
        justice

[[Page 133 STAT. 2409]]

        reform and recidivism reduction, and $17,000,000 is for an 
        Edward Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation program;
            (16) $378,000,000 for comprehensive opioid abuse reduction 
        activities, including as authorized by CARA, and for the 
        following programs, which shall address opioid, stimulant, and 
        substance abuse reduction consistent with underlying program 
        authorities--
                    (A) $80,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by 
                section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (B) $33,000,000 for mental health courts and adult 
                and juvenile collaboration program grants, as authorized 
                by parts V and HH of title I of the 1968 Act, and the 
                Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction 
                Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 
                110-416);
                    (C) $31,000,000 for grants for Residential Substance 
                Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners, as authorized by 
                part S of title I of the 1968 Act;
                    (D) $23,000,000 for a veterans treatment courts 
                program;
                    (E) $31,000,000 for a program to monitor 
                prescription drugs and scheduled listed chemical 
                products; and
                    (F) $180,000,000 for a comprehensive opioid, 
                stimulant, and substance abuse program;
            (17) $2,500,000 for a competitive grant program authorized 
        by the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act;
            (18) $75,000,000 for grants to be administered by the Bureau 
        of Justice Assistance for purposes authorized under the STOP 
        School Violence Act; and
            (19) $2,000,000 for grants to state and local law 
        enforcement agencies for the expenses associated with the 
        investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses, involving 
        civil rights, authorized by the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil 
        Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-325):

  Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds 
made available under this heading to increase the number of law 
enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net 
gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform non-
administrative public sector safety service.

                        juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department of 
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); 
the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of 
Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the Victims of Child 
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Adam 
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) 
(``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 
(Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the Justice for All 
Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); the Juvenile

[[Page 133 STAT. 2410]]

Justice Reform Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-385); and other juvenile 
justice programs, $320,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
follows--
            (1) $63,000,000 for programs authorized by section 221 of 
        the 1974 Act, and for training and technical assistance to 
        assist small, nonprofit organizations with the Federal grants 
        process:  Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
        paragraph, $500,000 shall be for a competitive demonstration 
        grant program to support emergency planning among State, local 
        and tribal juvenile justice residential facilities;
            (2) $97,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (3) $42,000,000 for delinquency prevention, of which, 
        pursuant to sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act--
                    (A) $2,000,000 shall be for grants to prevent 
                trafficking of girls;
                    (B) $5,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth 
                Program;
                    (C) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site providing 
                information and resources on children of incarcerated 
                parents;
                    (D) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive grants 
                focusing on girls in the juvenile justice system;
                    (E) $10,000,000 shall be for an opioid-affected 
                youth initiative; and
                    (F) $8,000,000 shall be for an initiative relating 
                to children exposed to violence;
            (4) $27,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
        Child Abuse Act of 1990;
            (5) $87,500,000 for missing and exploited children programs, 
        including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) of the 
        1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PROTECT Our 
        Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not apply for 
        purposes of this Act); and
            (6) $3,500,000 for child abuse training programs for 
        judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by section 
        222 of the 1990 Act:

  Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be used for 
research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed to benefit the 
programs or activities authorized:  Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of the amounts designated under paragraphs (1) through (3) and 
(6) may be used for training and technical assistance:  Provided 
further, That the two preceding provisos shall not apply to grants and 
projects administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act 
and to missing and exploited children programs.

                     public safety officer benefits

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 1001(a)(4) of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, such 
sums as are necessary (including amounts for administrative costs), to 
remain available until expended; and $24,800,000 for payments authorized 
by section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational assistance authorized 
by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That notwithstanding section 205 of 
this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney

[[Page 133 STAT. 2411]]

General that emergent circumstances require additional funding for such 
disability and education payments, the Attorney General may transfer 
such amounts to ``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available 
appropriations for the Department of Justice as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

              community oriented policing services programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against 
Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act of 
2017 (Public Law 115-37); and the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities 
Act (Public Law 115-271), $343,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That any balances made available through prior year 
deobligations shall only be available in accordance with section 505 of 
this Act:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Grants.>> of the amount 
provided under this heading--
            (1) $235,000,000 is for grants under section 1701 of title I 
        of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381) for the hiring and rehiring of 
        additional career law enforcement officers under part Q of such 
        title notwithstanding subsection (i) of such section:  Provided, 
        That, notwithstanding section 1704(c) of such title (34 U.S.C. 
        10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehiring a career law 
        enforcement officer may not exceed $125,000 unless the Director 
        of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services grants a 
        waiver from this limitation:  Provided further, That within the 
        amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $27,000,000 is for 
        improving tribal law enforcement, including hiring, equipment, 
        training, anti-methamphetamine activities, and anti-opioid 
        activities:  Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated 
        under this paragraph, $6,500,000 is for community policing 
        development activities in furtherance of the purposes in section 
        1701:  Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under 
        this paragraph $38,000,000 is for regional information sharing 
        activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the 1968 Act, 
        which shall be transferred to and merged with ``Research, 
        Evaluation, and Statistics'' for administration by the Office of 
        Justice Programs:  Provided further, That within the amounts 
        appropriated under this paragraph, no less than $3,000,000 is to 
        support the Tribal Access Program:  Provided further, That 
        within the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $5,000,000 
        is for training, peer mentoring, and mental health program 
        activities as authorized under the Law Enforcement Mental Health 
        and Wellness Act (Public Law 115-113);
            (2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by the POLICE 
        Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-199);

[[Page 133 STAT. 2412]]

            (3) $13,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of precursor 
        chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, and 
        laboratory dump seizures:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
        under this paragraph shall be utilized for investigative 
        purposes to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        precursor diversion, laboratories, or methamphetamine 
        traffickers;
            (4) $35,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
        treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids:  Provided, 
        That these funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes to 
        locate or investigate illicit activities, including activities 
        related to the distribution of heroin or unlawful distribution 
        of prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and prescription 
        opioid traffickers through statewide collaboration; and
            (5) $50,000,000 is for competitive grants to be administered 
        by the Community Oriented Policing Services Office for purposes 
        authorized under the STOP School Violence Act (title V of 
        division S of Public Law 115-141).

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 202.  <<NOTE: Abortion.>> None of the funds appropriated by 
this title shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or in the case of rape or incest:  Provided, That should this 
prohibition be declared unconstitutional by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.

    Sec. 203. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  None of the funds appropriated under 
this title shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
in any way the performance of, any abortion.

    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>   Nothing in the preceding section 
shall remove the obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to 
provide escort services necessary for a female inmate to receive such 
service outside the Federal facility:  Provided, That nothing in this 
section in any way diminishes the effect of section 203 intended to 
address the philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau 
of Prisons.

    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. <<NOTE: Prisons and prisoners.>>  None of the funds made 
available under this title may be used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons 
or the United

[[Page 133 STAT. 2413]]

States Marshals Service for the purpose of transporting an individual 
who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime under State or 
Federal law and is classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, 
other than to a prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau 
of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.

    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: Prisons and prisoners.>>  (a) None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be used by Federal prisons to purchase 
cable television services, or to rent or purchase audiovisual or 
electronic media or equipment used primarily for recreational purposes.

    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, maintenance, or 
purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or equipment for inmate 
training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Certification.>>  None of the funds made available 
under this title shall be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced 
information technology program having total estimated development costs 
in excess of $100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the 
investment review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate that the information 
technology program has appropriate program management controls and 
contractor oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is 
compatible with the enterprise architecture of the Department of 
Justice.

    Sec. 209. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   The notification thresholds and 
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to 
deviations from the amounts designated for specific activities in this 
Act and in the explanatory statement described in section 4 (in the 
matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), and to any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this title in previous 
years.

    Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a public-private 
competition under the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or 
any successor administrative regulation, directive, or policy for work 
performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 211.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any United 
States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by the 
Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States Attorney 
from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 212.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or authorized 
to be made available) by law, with respect to funds appropriated by this 
title under the headings ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs''--
            (1) up to 2 percent of funds made available to the Office of 
        Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may be used 
        by such Office to provide training and technical assistance; and
            (2) up to 2 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National

[[Page 133 STAT. 2414]]

        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to be 
        used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, 
        without regard to the authorizations for such grant or 
        reimbursement programs.

    Sec. 213. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon request by a grantee for 
whom the Attorney General has determined there is a fiscal hardship, the 
Attorney General may, with respect to funds appropriated in this or any 
other Act making appropriations for fiscal years 2017 through 2020 for 
the following programs, waive the following requirements:
            (1) For the adult and juvenile offender State and local 
        reentry demonstration projects under part FF of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 
        10631 et seq.), the requirements under section 2976(g)(1) of 
        such part (34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
            (2) For grants to protect inmates and safeguard communities 
        as authorized by section 6 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (34 U.S.C. 30305(c)(3)), the requirements of section 
        6(c)(3) of such Act.

    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a)) shall not apply to amounts 
made available by this or any other Act.
    Sec. 215. <<NOTE: Firearms.>>  None of the funds made available 
under this Act, other than for the national instant criminal background 
check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence 
Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901), may be used by a Federal law 
enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to 
an individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects 
that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law enforcement 
personnel of the United States continuously monitor or control the 
firearm at all times.

    Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department of 
Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 
(105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2020, except up to $12,000,000 may be obligated for 
implementation of a unified Department of Justice financial management 
system.
    (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
transferred to the capital account of the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 
28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 
2020, and any use, obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act.
    (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated balances 
available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code, 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2020, and any use, 
obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 217.  Discretionary funds that are made available in this Act 
for the Office of Justice Programs may be used to participate in 
Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 526 of division 
H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of Public Law 113-235, 
section 525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, and such authorities as 
are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in an appropriations Act 
for fiscal years 2019 and 2020.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2415]]

    Sec. 218. <<NOTE: 28 USC 527 note.>>  In this fiscal year and each 
fiscal year thereafter, amounts credited to and made available in the 
Department of Justice Working Capital Fund as an offsetting collection 
pursuant to section 11013 of Public Law 107-273 shall be so credited and 
available only to the extent and in such amounts as provided in advance 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 
or any other statute affecting the crediting of collections, the 
Attorney General may credit, as a discretionary offsetting collection, 
to the Department of Justice Working Capital Fund, for fiscal year 2020 
and thereafter, up to three percent of all amounts collected pursuant to 
civil debt collection litigation activities of the Department of 
Justice; and such amounts so credited in fiscal year 2020 and thereafter 
shall remain available until expended, and shall be subject to the terms 
and conditions of that fund:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That any such amounts from the fund 
that the Attorney General determines are necessary to pay, first, for 
the costs of processing and tracking civil and criminal debt collection 
litigation activities, and thereafter for financial systems and for 
debt-collection-related personnel, administrative, and litigation 
expenses, in fiscal year 2020 and thereafter, shall be transferred to 
other appropriations accounts in the Department of Justice for paying 
the costs of such activities, and shall be in addition to any amounts 
otherwise made available for such purposes in those appropriations 
accounts:  Provided further, That such transfer authority is in addition 
to any other transfer authority provided by law:  Provided further, That 
any transfer of funds pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.

    Sec. 219. <<NOTE: Applicability. 28 USC 1930 note.>>  Section 
1930(a)(6)(B) of title 28, United States Code, shall be applied for this 
fiscal year and next fiscal year by substituting ``$300,000,000'' for 
``$200,000,000''.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

TITLE <<NOTE: Science Appropriations Act, 2020.>> III

                                 SCIENCE

                 Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed 
$2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $5,544,000.

                         National Space Council

    For necessary expenses of the National Space Council, in carrying 
out the purposes of Title V of Public Law 100-685 and Executive Order 
13803, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $1,965,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other

[[Page 133 STAT. 2416]]

provision of law, the National Space Council may accept personnel 
support from Federal agencies, departments, and offices, and such 
Federal agencies, departments, and offices may detail staff without 
reimbursement to the National Space Council for purposes provided 
herein.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                 science

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $7,138,900,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, $1,971,800,000 shall be for Earth 
Science; $2,713,400,000 shall be for Planetary Science; $1,306,200,000 
shall be for Astrophysics; $423,000,000 shall be for the James Webb 
Space Telescope; and $724,500,000 shall be for Heliophysics:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided, $592,600,000 is for an orbiter to 
meet the science goals for the Jupiter Europa mission as recommended in 
previous Planetary Science Decadal surveys:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> That the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall use the Space Launch System as the launch vehicles 
for the Jupiter Europa missions, plan for an orbiter launch no later 
than 2025 and a lander launch no later than 2027, and include in the 
fiscal year 2021 budget the 5-year funding profile necessary to achieve 
these goals.

                               aeronautics

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $783,900,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                            space technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space technology research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire

[[Page 133 STAT. 2417]]

of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $1,100,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That $227,200,000 
shall be for RESTORE-L/SPace Infrastructure DExterous Robot:  Provided 
further, That $110,000,000 shall be for the development and 
demonstration of a nuclear thermal propulsion system, of which 
$80,000,000 shall be for the design of a flight demonstration system:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Plans.>>  That, not later than 180 
days after the enactment of this Act, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA) shall provide a plan for the design of a flight 
demonstration.

                               exploration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $6,017,600,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not less than $1,406,700,000 shall 
be for the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That not 
less than $2,585,900,000 shall be for the Space Launch System (SLS) 
launch vehicle, which shall have a lift capability not less than 130 
metric tons and which shall have core elements and an Exploration Upper 
Stage developed simultaneously to be used to the maximum extent 
practicable, including for Earth to Moon missions and a Moon landing:  
Provided further, That of the amounts provided for SLS, not less than 
$300,000,000 shall be for Exploration Upper Stage development:  Provided 
further, That $590,000,000 shall be for Exploration Ground Systems:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Budget profile.>>  That the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
concurrent with the annual budget submission, a 5-year budget profile 
for an integrated system that includes the SLS, the Orion Multi-Purpose 
Crew Vehicle, and associated ground systems that will ensure an 
Exploration Mission-2 crewed launch as early as possible, as well as a 
system-based funding profile for a sustained launch cadence beyond the 
initial crewed test launch:  Provided further, That $1,435,000,000 shall 
be for exploration research and development.

                            space operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space operations research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support and services; space 
flight, spacecraft control and communications activities, including 
operations, production, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
planning and design; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor

[[Page 133 STAT. 2418]]

vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft, $4,140,200,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

      science, technology, engineering, and mathematics engagement

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which 
$24,000,000 shall be for the Established Program to Stimulate 
Competitive Research and $48,000,000 shall be for the National Space 
Grant College and Fellowship Program.

                  safety, security and mission services

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, exploration, 
space operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $2,913,300,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.
    

        construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
compliance and restoration, $373,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2025:  Provided, <<NOTE: Contracts. Time period. 51 USC 
20145 note.>>  That proceeds from leases deposited into this account 
shall be available for a period of 5 years to the extent and in amounts 
as provided in annual appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That such 
proceeds referred to in the preceding proviso shall be available for 
obligation for fiscal year 2020 in an amount not to exceed $17,000,000:  
Provided further, That each <<NOTE: Deadline. Estimates. 51 USC 30103 
note.>> annual budget request shall include an annual estimate of gross 
receipts and collections and proposed use of all funds collected 
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United States Code.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2419]]

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $41,700,000, of which 
$500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                        administrative provisions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds <<NOTE: 51 USC 20144 note.>> for any announced prize otherwise 
authorized shall remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until 
a prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any 
such transfers. Any funds transferred to ``Construction and 
Environmental Compliance and Restoration'' for construction activities 
shall not increase that account by more than $75,300,000. Balances so 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred. Any 
transfer pursuant to this provision shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation provided for the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration under previous 
appropriations Acts that remains available for obligation or expenditure 
in fiscal year 2020 may be transferred between such appropriations, but 
no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any transfer 
pursuant to this provision shall retain its original availability and 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation except in compliance with 
the procedures set forth in that section.
    The <<NOTE: Spending plan.>>  spending plan required by this Act 
shall be provided by NASA at the theme, program, project and activity 
level. The spending plan, as well as any subsequent change of an amount 
established in that spending plan that meets the notification 
requirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section.

    Not <<NOTE: Plans.>> more than 40 percent of the amounts made 
available in this Act for the Gateway; Advanced Cislunar and Surface 
Capabilities; Commercial LEO Development; and Lunar Discovery and 
Exploration, excluding the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, may be 
obligated until the Administrator submits a multi-year plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate that identifies estimated dates, by fiscal year, for Space Launch 
System flights to build the Gateway; the commencement of partnerships 
with commercial entities for additional LEO missions to land humans and 
rovers on the Moon; and conducting additional scientific activities on 
the Moon. The multi-year plan shall include key milestones to be met by 
fiscal year to achieve

[[Page 133 STAT. 2420]]

goals for each of the lunar programs described in the previous sentence 
and funding required by fiscal year to achieve such milestones.

                       National Science Foundation

                     research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86-209 
(42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $6,737,200,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, of which not to exceed $500,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational 
and science support and logistical and other related activities for the 
United States Antarctic program:  Provided, That receipts for scientific 
support services and materials furnished by the National Research 
Centers and other National Science Foundation supported research 
facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $243,230,000, to remain available until expended.

                      education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics and 
engineering education and human resources programs and activities 
pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 
et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia, $940,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                 agency operations and award management

    For agency operations and award management necessary in carrying out 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.); 
services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and 
reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security guard 
services; $336,900,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $8,280 is for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That 
contracts may be entered into under this heading in fiscal year 2020 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities and for other services to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2421]]

                  office of the national science board

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) involved 
in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 
(42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,500,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $16,500,000, of which 
$400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Science Foundation in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any 
transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
     <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Director of the National 
Science Foundation (NSF) shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 30 days in 
advance of any planned divestment through transfer, decommissioning, 
termination, or deconstruction of any NSF-owned facilities or any NSF 
capital assets (including land, structures, and equipment) valued 
greater than $2,500,000.

    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 2020''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $10,500,000:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to employ any 
individuals under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 
billable days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 
125 billable days:  Provided further, That the Chair may accept and use 
any

[[Page 133 STAT. 2422]]

gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
used for any activity or expense that is not explicitly authorized by 
section 3 of the Civil Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$30,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $389,500,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to make available for official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Workforce proposal. Notification.>> That the 
Commission may take no action to implement any workforce repositioning, 
restructuring, or reorganization until such time as the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate have been 
notified of such proposals, in accordance with the reprogramming 
requirements of section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Chair may accept and use any gift or donation to carry out the work of 
the Commission.

                     International Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 
for official reception and representation expenses, $99,400,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

                payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $440,000,000, of 
which $402,700,000 is for basic field programs and required independent 
audits; $5,300,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, of which such 
amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct additional audits of 
recipients; $22,000,000 is for management and grants oversight; 
$4,000,000 is for client self-help and information technology; 
$4,500,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and $1,500,000 is for loan 
repayment assistance:

[[Page 133 STAT. 2423]]

 Provided, That the Legal Services Corporation may continue to provide 
locality pay to officers and employees at a rate no greater than that 
provided by the Federal Government to Washington, DC-based employees as 
authorized by section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, 
notwithstanding section 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corporation Act 
(42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)):  Provided <<NOTE: Applicability.>> further, That 
the authorities provided in section 205 of this Act shall be applicable 
to the Legal Services Corporation:  Provided further, That, for the 
purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal Services Corporation 
shall be considered an agency of the United States Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2019 and 2020, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 
et seq.), $3,616,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $54,000,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of the total amount 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $124,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                      trade enforcement trust fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities of the United States Trade Representative authorized 
by section 611 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived 
from the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to subsection (d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2424]]

                         State Justice Institute

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) 
$6,555,000, of which $500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That, 
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the State Justice Institute 
shall be considered an agency of the United States Government.

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                         (including rescissions)

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501. <<NOTE: Propaganda.>>  No part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes 
not authorized by the Congress.

    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  The expenditure of any appropriation 
under this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive order 
issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505.  <<NOTE: Notifications. Deadline.>> None of the funds 
provided under this Act, or provided under previous appropriations Acts 
to the agencies funded by this Act that remain available for obligation 
or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates or initiates a new program, project, or activity; (2) eliminates 
a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
means for any project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or 
renames offices, programs, or activities; (6) contracts out or 
privatizes any functions or activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; (7) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 
percent funding for any program, project, or activity, or numbers of 
personnel by 10 percent; or (8) results from any general savings, 
including savings from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a 
change in existing programs,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2425]]

projects, or activities as approved by Congress; unless the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of 
such reprogramming of funds.

    Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to authorized 
purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this Act shall 
be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or assembled 
in the United States, its territories or possessions.
    (2) <<NOTE: Definition.>> The term ``promotional items'' has the 
meaning given the term in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item 
(1)(f)(3).

    Sec. 507. (a) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, the National Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
quarterly report on the status of balances of appropriations at the 
account level. For unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, 
committed balances the quarterly reports shall separately identify the 
amounts attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.

    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be submitted within 
30 days of the end of each quarter.
    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any aspect of a 
reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a limitation of 
a current accounting system, the department or agency shall fulfill such 
aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such accounting system 
and shall identify and describe in each quarterly report the extent to 
which such aspect is not fulfilled.
    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available to such department or 
agency:  Provided, <<NOTE: Transfer authority.>>  That the authority to 
transfer funds between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to 
carry out this section is provided in addition to authorities included 
elsewhere in this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out 
this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability. Loans. Grants.>>  That for the 
Department of Commerce, this section shall also apply to actions taken 
for the care and protection of loan collateral or grant property.

    Sec. 509. <<NOTE: Tobacco and tobacco products.>>  None of the funds 
provided by this Act shall be available to promote the sale or export of 
tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any 
foreign country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally to all 
tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2426]]

    Sec. 510.  <<NOTE: 34 USC 20101 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, amounts deposited or available in the Fund established 
by section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 
U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess of $2,641,000,000 shall not 
be available for obligation until the following fiscal year:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act, of the amounts 
available from the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General and 
remain available until expended for oversight and auditing purposes 
associated with this section; and (2) 5 percent shall be available to 
the Office for Victims of Crime for grants, consistent with the 
requirements of the Victims of Crime Act, to Indian tribes to improve 
services for victims of crime.

    Sec. 511. <<NOTE: Discrimination.>>  None of the funds made 
available to the Department of Justice in this Act may be used to 
discriminate against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of 
students who participate in programs for which financial assistance is 
provided from those funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of such 
students.

    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 513. (a) <<NOTE: Audits. Reports. Deadlines.>>  The Inspectors 
General of the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science 
Foundation, and the Legal Services Corporation shall conduct audits, 
pursuant to the Inspector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or 
contracts for which funds are appropriated by this Act, and shall submit 
reports to Congress on the progress of such audits, which may include 
preliminary findings and a description of areas of particular interest, 
within 180 days after initiating such an audit and every 180 days 
thereafter until any such audit is completed.

    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit described in 
subsection (a) by an Inspector General is completed, the Secretary, 
Attorney General, Administrator, Director, or President, as appropriate, 
shall make the results of the audit available to the public on the 
Internet website maintained by the Department, Administration, 
Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results shall be made 
available in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) sensitive personal information for any individual, the 
        public access to which could be used to commit identity theft or 
        for other inappropriate or unlawful purposes.

    (c) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Any person awarded a grant or contract 
funded by amounts appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to 
the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, 
Director, or President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds derived 
from the grant or contract will be made available through a subcontract 
or in any other manner to another person who has a financial interest in 
the person awarded the grant or contract.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective 
date. Consultation. Determination. Applicability.>>  The provisions of 
the preceding subsections of this section shall take effect 30 days 
after the date on which the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Government 
Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules and requirements, 
substantially similar to

[[Page 133 STAT. 2427]]

the requirements in such subsections, consistently apply under the 
executive branch ethics program to all Federal departments, agencies, 
and entities.

    Sec. 514. <<NOTE: Review.>>  (a) None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act may be used by the Departments 
of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation to acquire a high-
impact or moderate-impact information system, as defined for security 
categorization in the National Institute of Standards and Technology's 
(NIST) Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 199, 
``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and 
Information Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST and the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to inform acquisition decisions 
        for high-impact and moderate-impact information systems within 
        the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Consultation. Assessment. China. Iran. North 
        Korea. Russia.>>  in consultation with the FBI or other 
        appropriate Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk 
        of cyber-espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition 
        of such system, including any risk associated with such system 
        being produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more 
        entities identified by the United States Government as posing a 
        cyber threat, including but not limited to, those that may be 
        owned, directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of 
        China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
        Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.

    (b) <<NOTE: Consultations.>>  None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-
impact or moderate-impact information system reviewed and assessed under 
subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity described in 
subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST, the FBI, and 
        supply chain risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for 
        any identified risks;
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determined, in consultation 
        with NIST and the FBI, that the acquisition of such system is in 
        the national interest of the United States; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  reported that determination to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate and the agency Inspector General.

    Sec. 515. <<NOTE: Torture.>>   None of the funds made available in 
this Act shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture by any official or contract employee of the United States 
Government.

    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the text 
of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-Morocco 
        Free Trade Agreement.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2428]]

    Sec. 517. <<NOTE: National security letter.>>   None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be used to authorize or issue a national 
security letter in contravention of any of the following laws 
authorizing the Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue national 
security letters: The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978; The 
Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair Credit Reporting 
Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREEDOM Act 
of 2015; and the laws amended by these Acts.

    Sec. 518. <<NOTE: Notifications.>>   If at any time during any 
quarter, the program manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the 
Departments of Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation totaling more than 
$75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe that the total program cost 
has increased by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall 
immediately inform the respective Secretary, Administrator, or 
Director. <<NOTE: Deadline. Determination.>> The Secretary, 
Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such increase, and shall 
include in such notice: the date on which such determination was made; a 
statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken and 
proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and the degree to 
which such changes have contributed to the increase in total program 
costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total project or 
procurement costs; and a statement validating that the project's 
management structure is adequate to control total project or procurement 
costs.

    Sec. 519.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094) during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 520. <<NOTE: Contracts. Grants. Certification. Taxes Time 
periods.>>  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an amount greater 
than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such amount unless the 
prospective contractor or grantee certifies in writing to the agency 
awarding the contract or grant that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal tax returns 
required during the three years preceding the certification, has not 
been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to certification, been 
notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability 
remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an 
installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been approved by 
the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is 
the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 521. <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> (a) Of the unobligated balances from 
prior year appropriations available to the Department of Commerce, the 
following funds are hereby rescinded, not later than September 30, 2020, 
from the following accounts in the specified amounts--
            (1) ``Economic Development Administration, Economic 
        Development Assistance Programs'', $17,000,000; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2429]]

            (2) ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
        Fisheries Enforcement Asset Forfeiture Fund'', $5,000,000.

    (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department of 
Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not later than 
September 30, 2020, from the following accounts in the specified 
amounts--
            (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $107,000,000;
            (2) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $71,974,000 including from, but not limited to, fees 
        collected to defray expenses for the automation of fingerprint 
        identification and criminal justice information services and 
        associated costs;
            (3) ``Drug Enforcement Administration, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $10,000,000;
            (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office of 
        Justice Programs'', $70,000,000; and
            (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Community 
        Oriented Policing Services'', $13,000,000.

    (c) Of the unobligated balances available to the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration from prior year appropriations 
under the heading ``Science'', $70,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    (d) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Departments of Commerce and Justice and 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report no later than September 1, 2020, specifying the amount 
of each rescission made pursuant to subsections (a), (b), and (c).

    (e) The amounts rescinded in subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall not 
be from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency or 
disaster relief requirement pursuant to the concurrent resolution on the 
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 522. <<NOTE: Airline travel.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to purchase first class or premium 
airline travel in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-
10.124 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

    Sec. 523. <<NOTE: Conference attendees.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to send or otherwise pay for the 
attendance of more than 50 employees from a Federal department or 
agency, who are stationed in the United States, at any single conference 
occurring outside the United States unless--
            (1) such conference is a law enforcement training or 
        operational conference for law enforcement personnel and the 
        majority of Federal employees in attendance are law enforcement 
        personnel stationed outside the United States; or
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination. Notification. Deadline.>> such 
        conference is a scientific conference and the department or 
        agency head determines that such attendance is in the national 
        interest and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and the Senate within at least 15 days 
        of that determination and the basis for that determination.

    Sec. 524. <<NOTE: Grants. Performance plan. Reports.>>   The 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall instruct any 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving 
funds appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed balances in 
expired grant accounts and include in its annual performance plan and 
performance and accountability reports the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 2430]]

            (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
        accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (4) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  In the preceding 3 fiscal years, 
        details on the total number of expired grant accounts with 
        undisbursed balances (on the first day of each fiscal year) for 
        the department, agency, or instrumentality and the total 
        finances that have not been obligated to a specific project 
        remaining in the accounts.

    Sec. 525. <<NOTE: Light bulbs.>>   To the extent practicable, funds 
made available in this Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that 
are ``Energy Star'' qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management 
Program'' designation.

    Sec. 526. <<NOTE: China.>>  (a) None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA), the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP), or the National Space Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, 
promulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or 
contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or coordinate 
bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-owned company unless 
such activities are specifically authorized by a law enacted after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors at facilities 
belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (c) <<NOTE: Consultation. Certification.>>  The limitations 
described in subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to activities which 
NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, have certified--
            (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of technology, 
        data, or other information with national security or economic 
        security implications to China or a Chinese-owned company; and
            (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials who 
        have been determined by the United States to have direct 
        involvement with violations of human rights.

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Any certification made under subsection (c) 
shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
no later than 30 days prior to the activity in question and shall 
include a description of the purpose of the activity, its agenda, its 
major participants, and its location and timing.

    Sec. 527. <<NOTE: Pornography.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, 
adjudication, or other law enforcement- or victim assistance-related 
activity.
    Sec. 528. <<NOTE: Spending plans. Deadline.>>  The Departments of 
Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
the National

[[Page 133 STAT. 2431]]

Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission, the International Trade Commission, the Legal 
Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of 
Science and Technology Policy and the United States Trade 
Representative, the National Space Council, and the State Justice 
Institute shall submit spending plans, signed by the respective 
department or agency head, to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 45 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 529. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor 
performance that has been judged to be below satisfactory performance or 
for performance that does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.

    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp 
Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) by the 
Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement Administration.
    Sec. 531. <<NOTE: State listing. Territories. Medical marijuana.>>  
None of the funds made available under this Act to the Department of 
Justice may be used, with respect to any of the States of Alabama, 
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, 
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, 
Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, 
Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New 
York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, 
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, or 
with respect to the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, or 
Puerto Rico, to prevent any of them from implementing their own laws 
that authorize the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of 
medical marijuana.

    Sec. 532. <<NOTE: Reports. China.>>   The Department of Commerce, 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National 
Science Foundation shall provide a quarterly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on any 
official travel to China by any employee of such Department or agency, 
including the purpose of such travel.

    Sec. 533.  Of the amounts made available by this Act, not less than 
10 percent of each total amount provided, respectively, for Public Works 
grants authorized by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 
1965 and grants authorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allocated 
for assistance in persistent poverty counties:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Definition.>>  That for purposes of this section, the 
term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 
percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the most 
recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, or any territory or 
possession of the United States.

    Sec. 534. <<NOTE: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Detainees. Cuba.>>   None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release to or within the United States,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2432]]

its territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of 
        Defense.

    Sec. 535. <<NOTE: Cuba.>> (a) None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this or any other Act may be used to 
construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United States, its 
territories, or possessions to house any individual described in 
subsection (c) for the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the 
custody or under the effective control of the Department of Defense.

    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control of 
                the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

    Sec. 536. <<NOTE: Termination date. Determination.>>  None of the 
funds provided in this Act shall be available for obligation for the 
James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) after December 31, 2020, if the 
individual identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of 
title 51, United States Code, as responsible for JWST determines that 
the formulation and development costs (with development cost as defined 
under section 30104 of title 51, United States Code) are likely to 
exceed $8,802,700,000, unless the program is modified so that the costs 
do not exceed $8,802,700,000.

    Sec. 537. <<NOTE: Exports and imports. Canada. Firearms.>>  (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act or any other Act 
may be expended or obligated by a department, agency, or instrumentality 
of the United States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate an 
officer or employee of the United States in connection with requiring an 
export license for the export to Canada of components, parts, 
accessories or attachments for firearms listed in Category I, section 
121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations (International 
Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 
1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) of this 
section are met by the exporting party for such articles.

    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
        Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
        from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
        States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
        enumerated in subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components and 
                parts for such firearms, other than for end use by the 
                Federal

[[Page 133 STAT. 2433]]

                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or 
                complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to another 
                foreign destination.

    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors of 
Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or temporary export 
without a license of any unclassified articles specified in subsection 
(a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return to the United States, or 
temporary import of Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in the 
United States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) <<NOTE: President. Determination. Federal Register, 
publication.>>  The President may require export licenses under this 
section on a temporary basis if the President determines, upon 
publication first in the Federal Register, that the Government of Canada 
has implemented or maintained inadequate import controls for the 
articles specified in subsection (a), such that a significant diversion 
of such articles has and continues to take place for use in 
international terrorism or in the escalation of a conflict in another 
nation. The President <<NOTE: Termination.>> shall terminate the 
requirements of a license when reasons for the temporary requirements 
have ceased.

    Sec. 538. <<NOTE: Firearms Ammunition.>>   Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other 
Act shall obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay administrative 
expenses or the compensation of any officer or employee of the United 
States to deny any application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 
2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, 
for a permit to import United States origin ``curios or relics'' 
firearms, parts, or ammunition.

    Sec. 539. <<NOTE: Exports and imports. Firearms.>>   None of the 
funds made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries or 
expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to act on, an application for the 
importation of any model of shotgun if--
            (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
        proposed importation are met; and
            (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
        shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
        Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that the 
        shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily adaptable 
        to sporting purposes.

    Sec. 540.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.
    This division may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2434]]

     DIVISION C-- <<NOTE: Financial Services and General Government 
 Appropriations Act, 2020.>> FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

TITLE I <<NOTE: Department of the Treasury Appropriations Act, 2020.>> 

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Freedman's Bank 
Building; hire of passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and 
improvements of, and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real 
properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance 
of official business; executive direction program activities; 
international affairs and economic policy activities; domestic finance 
and tax policy activities, including technical assistance to State, 
local, and territorial entities; and Treasury-wide management policies 
and programs activities, $228,373,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not to exceed $350,000 is for official reception and 
        representation expenses;
            (2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
        a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
        direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted 
        for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
            (3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2021, for--
                    (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
                Internal Control Program;
                    (B) information technology modernization 
                requirements;
                    (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the 
                Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
                    (D) the development and implementation of programs 
                within the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection 
                and Compliance Policy, including entering into 
                cooperative agreements;
                    (E) operations and maintenance of facilities; and
                    (F) international operations.

        committee on foreign investment in the united states fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the 
United States, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the chairperson of the Committee 
may transfer such amounts to any department or agency represented on the 
Committee (including the Department of the Treasury) subject to advance 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That amounts so 
transferred shall remain available until expended for expenses of 
implementing section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as 
amended (50 U.S.C. 4565), and shall be available

[[Page 133 STAT. 2435]]

in addition to any other funds available to any department or agency:  
Provided further, That fees authorized by section 721(p) of such Act 
shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections:  
Provided further, That the total amount appropriated under this heading 
from the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections 
are received during fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a total 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$10,000,000.

             office of terrorism and financial intelligence

                          salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence to safeguard the financial system against illicit use and 
to combat rogue nations, terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass 
destruction proliferators, human rights abusers, money launderers, drug 
kingpins, and other national security threats, $169,712,000, of which 
not less than $3,000,000 shall be available for addressing human rights 
violations and corruption, including activities authorized by the Global 
Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 2656 note):  
Provided, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, up to 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021.

                    cybersecurity enhancement account

    For salaries and expenses for enhanced cybersecurity for systems 
operated by the Department of the Treasury, $18,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That such funds shall 
supplement and not supplant any other amounts made available to the 
Treasury offices and bureaus for cybersecurity:  Provided further, That 
of the total amount made available under this heading $1,000,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses for the Treasury Chief 
Information Officer to provide oversight of the investments made under 
this heading:  Provided further, That such funds shall supplement and 
not supplant any other amounts made available to the Treasury Chief 
Information Officer.

        department-wide systems and capital investments programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services and for repairs and renovations to 
buildings owned by the Department of the Treasury, $6,118,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022:  Provided, That these funds shall be 
transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy the 
requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
organizations:  Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be used to support or supplement ``Internal Revenue Service, 
Operations Support'' or ``Internal Revenue Service, Business Systems 
Modernization''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2436]]

                       office of inspector general

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$41,044,000, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; of which not to 
exceed $100,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction of 
the Inspector General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for audits and 
investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the Resources and 
Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies 
of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which 
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

            treasury inspector general for tax administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 
U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates 
as may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; 
$170,250,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be available for 
official travel expenses; of which not to exceed $500,000 shall be 
available for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration; and of which not to exceed $1,500 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses.

     special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343), $22,000,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and training expenses 
of non-Federal and foreign government personnel to attend meetings and 
training concerned with domestic and foreign financial intelligence 
activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $12,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law 
enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $126,000,000, of 
which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2022.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2437]]

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, $340,280,000; of which not to exceed $8,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022, is for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$119,600,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and of which not to exceed $50,000 shall be 
available for cooperative research and development programs for 
laboratory services; and provision of laboratory assistance to State and 
local agencies with or without reimbursement:  Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the 
costs of accelerating the processing of formula and label applications:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, shall be for 
the costs associated with enforcement of the trade practice provisions 
of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).

                           United States Mint

                united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the United 
States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint Public 
Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of circulating 
coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including both 
operating expenses and capital investments:  Provided, That the 
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obligations incurred during 
fiscal year 2020 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
protective service capital investments of the United States Mint shall 
not exceed $30,000,000.

    Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

    To carry out the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvement Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for EX-III, $262,000,000. Of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $165,500,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard

[[Page 133 STAT. 2438]]

        to Small and/or Emerging Community Development Financial 
        Institutions Assistance awards, is available until September 30, 
        2021, for financial assistance and technical assistance under 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 108(a)(1), respectively, of 
        Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which 
        up to $1,600,000 may be available for training and outreach 
        under section 109 of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4708), of 
        which up to $2,397,500 may be used for the cost of direct loans, 
        of which up to $4,000,000, notwithstanding subsection (d) of 
        section 108 of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707 (d)), may be 
        available to provide financial assistance, technical assistance, 
        training, and outreach to community development financial 
        institutions to expand investments that benefit individuals with 
        disabilities, and of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be for 
        the Economic Mobility Corps to be operated in conjunction with 
        the Corporation for National and Community Service, pursuant to 
        42 U.S.C. 12571:  Provided, That the cost of direct and 
        guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
        shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
        Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available 
        to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
        direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000:  Provided further, That 
        of the funds provided under this paragraph, excluding those made 
        to community development financial institutions to expand 
        investments that benefit individuals with disabilities and those 
        made to community development financial institutions that serve 
        populations living in persistent poverty counties, the CDFI Fund 
        shall prioritize Financial Assistance awards to organizations 
        that invest and lend in high-poverty areas:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Definition. Time period.>>  That for purposes 
        of this section, the term ``high-poverty area'' means any census 
        tract with a poverty rate of at least 20 percent as measured by 
        the 2011-2015 5-year data series available from the American 
        Community Survey of the Bureau of the Census for all States and 
        Puerto Rico or with a poverty rate of at least 20 percent as 
        measured by the 2010 Island Areas Decennial Census data for any 
        other territory or possession of the United States;
            (2) not less than $16,000,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available 
        until September 30, 2021, for financial assistance, technical 
        assistance, training, and outreach programs designed to benefit 
        Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native communities 
        and provided primarily through qualified community development 
        lender organizations with experience and expertise in community 
        development banking and lending in Indian country, Native 
        American organizations, tribes and tribal organizations, and 
        other suitable providers;
            (3) not less than $25,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2021, for the Bank Enterprise Award program;
            (4) not less than $22,000,000, notwithstanding subsections 
        (d) and (e) of section 108 of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 
        4707(d) and (e)), is available until September 30, 2021, for a 
        Healthy Food Financing Initiative to provide financial 
        assistance, technical assistance, training, and outreach to 
        community development financial institutions for the purpose of 
        offering

[[Page 133 STAT. 2439]]

        affordable financing and technical assistance to expand the 
        availability of healthy food options in distressed communities;
            (5) not less than $5,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2021, to provide grants for loan loss reserve funds and to 
        provide technical assistance for small dollar loan programs 
        under section 122 of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4719):  
        Provided, That sections 108(d) and 122(b)(2) of such Public Law 
        shall not apply to the provision of such grants and technical 
        assistance;
            (6) up to $28,500,000 is available until September 30, 2020, 
        for administrative expenses, including administration of CDFI 
        Fund programs and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, of which 
        not less than $1,000,000 is for development of tools to better 
        assess and inform CDFI investment performance, and up to 
        $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
        loan program; and
            (7) during fiscal year 2020, none of the funds available 
        under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
        commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A of 
        the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act 
        of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a):  Provided, That commitments to 
        guarantee bonds and notes under such section 114A shall not 
        exceed $500,000,000:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Termination 
        date. 12 USC 4713a note.>>  That such section 114A shall remain 
        in effect until December 31, 2020:  Provided further, That of 
        the funds awarded under this heading, not less than 10 percent 
        shall be used for awards that support investments that serve 
        populations living in persistent poverty counties:  Provided 
        further, <<NOTE: Definition. Puerto Rico. Time period.>> That 
        for the purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (1) the term 
        ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county, including 
        county equivalent areas in Puerto Rico, that has had 20 percent 
        or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
        years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and 
        the 2011-2015 5-year data series available from the American 
        Community Survey of the Bureau of the Census or any other 
        territory or possession of the United States that has had 20 
        percent or more of its population living in poverty over the 
        past 30 years, as measured by the 1990, 2000 and 2010 Island 
        Areas Decennial Censuses, or equivalent data, of the Bureau of 
        the Census.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                            taxpayer services

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to provide 
taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and education, filing 
and account services, taxpayer advocacy services, and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $2,511,554,000, of which not less than $11,000,000 shall 
be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of which not less 
than $12,000,000 shall be available for low-income taxpayer clinic 
grants, of which not less than $25,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, shall be available for the Community Volunteer 
Income Tax Assistance Matching Grants Program for tax return preparation

[[Page 133 STAT. 2440]]

assistance, and of which not less than $209,000,000 shall be available 
for operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate Service:  Provided, That 
of the amounts made available for the Taxpayer Advocate Service, not 
less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity theft and refund fraud 
casework.

                               enforcement

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of the 
Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed taxes, to provide 
legal and litigation support, to conduct criminal investigations, to 
enforce criminal statutes related to violations of internal revenue laws 
and other financial crimes, to purchase and hire passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $5,010,000,000, of which not to exceed $250,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021; of which not less than 
$60,257,000 shall be for the Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement 
program; and of which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall be for 
investigative technology for the Criminal Investigation Division:  
Provided, That the amount made available for investigative technology 
for the Criminal Investigation Division shall be in addition to amounts 
made available for the Criminal Investigation Division under the 
``Operations Support'' heading.

                           operations support

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to support 
taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including rent payments; 
facilities services; printing; postage; physical security; headquarters 
and other IRS-wide administration activities; research and statistics of 
income; telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the operations of the 
Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $3,808,500,000, of which not to exceed $250,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for acquisition of 
equipment and construction, repair and renovation of facilities; of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2022, for research; of which not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be available for establishment of an 
application through which entities registering and renewing 
registrations in the System for Award Management may request an 
authenticated electronic certification stating that the entity does or 
does not have a seriously delinquent tax debt; and of which not to 
exceed $20,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Reports. 26 USC 7801 note.>> not later 
than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate and the Comptroller General of the 
United States detailing the cost and schedule performance for its major 
information technology investments, including the purpose and life-cycle 
stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and strategies the Internal 
Revenue

[[Page 133 STAT. 2441]]

Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental 
milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the next quarter:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Summaries.>> That the Internal Revenue Service 
shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal year 2021, a 
summary of cost and schedule performance information for its major 
information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's business 
systems modernization program, $180,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022, for the capital asset acquisition of information 
technology systems, including management and related contractual costs 
of said acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service labor 
costs, and contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: <<NOTE: Reports. 26 USC 7801 note.>>  Provided, That not 
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue 
Service shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate and the Comptroller General of 
the United States detailing the cost and schedule performance for major 
information technology investments, including the purposes and life-
cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and the strategies the Internal 
Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the expected 
developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the 
next quarter.

           administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  Not to exceed 4 percent of 
the appropriation made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue 
Service under the ``Enforcement'' heading, and not to exceed 5 percent 
of any other appropriation made available in this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service, may be transferred to any other Internal Revenue 
Service appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an employee 
training program, which shall include the following topics: taxpayers' 
rights, dealing courteously with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, 
ethics, and the impartial application of tax law.
    Sec. 103.  <<NOTE: Confidentiality. Identify theft.>>  The Internal 
Revenue Service shall institute and enforce policies and procedures that 
will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer information and protect 
taxpayers against identity theft.

    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased staffing to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
improvements to the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to victims of tax-
related crimes.
    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Notice.>>   The Internal Revenue Service shall 
issue a notice of confirmation of any address change relating to an 
employer making employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent

[[Page 133 STAT. 2442]]

to both the employer's former and new address and an officer or employee 
of the Internal Revenue Service shall give special consideration to an 
offer-in-compromise from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by 
a third party payroll tax preparer.

    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of the United 
States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First Amendment to 
the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for regulatory scrutiny 
based on their ideological beliefs.
    Sec. 108.  None of funds made available by this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on conferences that do 
not adhere to the procedures, verification processes, documentation 
requirements, and policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human 
Capital Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by the Treasury 
Inspector General for Tax Administration entitled ``Review of the August 
2010 Small Business/Self-Employed Division's Conference in Anaheim, 
California'' (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
            (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
        or recognition program; or
            (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
        respect to re-hiring a former employee;

unless such program or process takes into account the conduct and 
Federal tax compliance of such employee or former employee.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to confidentiality and disclosure of returns and return 
information).

          Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 111.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services to 
employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  Not to exceed 2 percent of 
any appropriations in this title made available under the headings 
``Departmental Offices--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Inspector 
General'', ``Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief 
Program'', ``Financial Crimes Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau of the 
Fiscal Service'', and ``Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau'' may 
be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of

[[Page 133 STAT. 2443]]

Representatives and the Senate:  Provided, That no transfer under this 
section may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.

    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  Not to exceed 2 percent of 
any appropriation made available in this Act to the Internal Revenue 
Service may be transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration's appropriation upon the advance approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.

    Sec. 114.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 115.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from the 
``Bureau of the Fiscal Service--Salaries and Expenses'' to the Debt 
Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> That such amounts shall be reimbursed 
to such salaries and expenses account from debt collections received in 
the Debt Collection Fund.

    Sec. 116.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States Mint 
to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, the House Committee on Financial Services, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department of the 
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the United States 
Mint, individually or collectively, may be used to consolidate any or 
all functions of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United 
States Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 118.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of the Treasury's 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2020 until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020.
    Sec. 119.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving Fund for 
necessary official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 120. <<NOTE: Plan. Deadline.>>  The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall submit a Capital Investment Plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later 
than 30 days following the submission of the annual budget submitted by 
the President:  Provided, That such Capital Investment Plan shall 
include capital investment spending from all accounts within the 
Department of the Treasury, including but not limited to the Department-
wide Systems and Capital Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise 
Fund account, and the Treasury Forfeiture Fund account:  Provided 
further, That such Capital Investment Plan shall include

[[Page 133 STAT. 2444]]

expenditures occurring in previous fiscal years for each capital 
investment project that has not been fully completed.

    Sec. 121. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Within 45 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an 
itemized report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on the amount of total funds charged to 
each office by the Franchise Fund including the amount charged for each 
service provided by the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed 
description of the services, a detailed explanation of how each charge 
for each service is calculated, and a description of the role customers 
have in governing in the Franchise Fund.

    Sec. 122. <<NOTE: Non profit organizations.>>  During fiscal year 
2020--
            (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
        Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including the 
        Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize any 
        regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited to a 
        particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is used to 
        determine whether an organization is operated exclusively for 
        the promotion of social welfare for purposes of section 
        501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including the 
        proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 
        29, 2013)); and
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability. Determination.>>  the standard 
        and definitions as in effect on January 1, 2010, which are used 
        to make such determinations shall apply after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act for purposes of determining status under 
        section 501(c)(4) of such Code of organizations created on, 
        before, or after such date.

    Sec. 123. <<NOTE: Time period. Reports.>>  (a) Not later than 60 
days after the end of each quarter, the Office of Financial Stability 
and the Office of Financial Research shall submit reports on their 
activities to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs.

    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.

    (c) <<NOTE: Testimony.>>  At the request of any such Committees 
specified in subsection (a), the Office of Financial Stability and the 
Office of Financial Research shall make officials available to testify 
on the contents of the reports required under subsection (a).

    Sec. 124.  In addition to the amounts otherwise made available to 
the Department of the Treasury, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for expenses associated with digitization and 
distribution of the Department's records of matured savings bonds that 
have not been redeemed.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2445]]

 TITLE II <<NOTE: Executive Office of the President Appropriations Act, 
2020.>> 

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                             The White House

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 
103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; and for necessary expenses of the 
Office of Policy Development, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the White 
House, $13,081,000, to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                          reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount for 
reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses:  Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Notice. Deadlines.>> the 
Executive Residence shall ensure that a written notice of any amount 
owed for a reimbursable operating expense under this paragraph is 
submitted to the person owing such amount within 60 days after such 
expense is incurred, and that such amount is collected within 30 days 
after the submission of such notice:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Penalties. Deadlines.>> the Executive Residence shall 
charge interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such 
amount that is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with 
the interest and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt

[[Page 133 STAT. 2446]]

on a United States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717:  Provided 
further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and any accompanying 
interest and charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts:  Provided <<NOTE: Reports.>> further, That the 
Executive Residence shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable 
operating expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the amount of 
such total that consists of reimbursable official and ceremonial events, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable political events, 
and the portion of each such amount that has been reimbursed as of the 
date of the report:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Records.>> That the 
Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking of expenses 
related to reimbursable events within the Executive Residence that 
includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical:  Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d), $750,000, to 
remain available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution of 
safety and health issues, and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021 et seq.), $4,000,000.

         National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and the 
Homeland Security Council, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $11,500,000 of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Office of Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $94,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$12,800,000 shall remain available until expended for continued 
modernization of information resources within the Executive Office of 
the President.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2447]]

                     Office of Management and Budget

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, 
United States Code, and to prepare and submit the budget of the United 
States Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, $101,600,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for official representation expenses:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management and 
Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural 
marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions 
of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.):  Provided further, That none of the funds made available for the 
Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the 
altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before 
the Committees on Appropriations or their subcommittees:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for the Office of 
Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
the annual work plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for submission 
to the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be used, directly or 
indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, for evaluating or 
determining if water resource project or study reports submitted by the 
Chief of Engineers acting through the Secretary of the Army are in 
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and requirements 
relevant to the Civil Works water resource planning process:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Policy reviews.>> That the Office of 
Management and Budget shall have not more than 60 days in which to 
perform budgetary policy reviews of water resource matters on which the 
Chief of Engineers has reported:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification.>> the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget shall notify the appropriate authorizing and appropriating 
committees when the 60-day review is initiated:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>> if water resource reports have not been 
transmitted to the appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees 
within 15 days after the end of the Office of Management and Budget 
review period based on the notification from the Director, Congress 
shall assume Office of Management and Budget concurrence with the report 
and act accordingly.

              Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Intellectual Property 
Enforcement Coordinator, as authorized by title III of the Prioritizing 
Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-403), including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$1,300,000.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2448]]

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998, as amended through Public 
Law 115-271; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in 
the provision of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, 
research, or public organizations or agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $18,400,000:  Provided, <<NOTE: 21 USC 1702 note.>> That 
the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, 
both real and personal, public and private, without fiscal year 
limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
Office.

                      federal drug control programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Deadline.>> necessary expenses of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, 
$285,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for drug 
control activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which 
not less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
than 120 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments in 
amounts determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy, of which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing 
services and associated activities:  Provided further, That any 
unexpended funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2018 may be used for any 
other approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
requirements:  Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as of 
September 30, 2019, shall be funded at not less than the fiscal year 
2019 base level, unless the Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
justification for changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
priorities and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notifications. Deadlines. Determination. Consultation.>> 
That the Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
initial allocation of fiscal year 2020 funding among HIDTAs not later 
than 45 days after enactment of this Act, and shall notify the 
Committees of planned uses of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined 
in consultation with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>> That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds so transferred from 
this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein 
and upon notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, such amounts may be transferred back 
to this appropriation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2449]]

                   other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the National 
Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 and the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998, as amended through Public Law 115-
271, $121,715,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be 
available as follows: $101,250,000 for the Drug-Free Communities 
Program, of which $2,500,000 shall be made available as directed by 
section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as amended by section 8204 of Public Law 
115-271; $2,500,000 for drug court training and technical assistance; 
$10,000,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,715,000 for the United States 
membership dues to the World Anti-Doping Agency; $1,250,000 for the 
Model Acts Program; and $4,000,000 for activities authorized by section 
103 of Public Law 114-198:  Provided, That amounts made available under 
this heading may be transferred to other Federal departments and 
agencies to carry out such activities.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year, as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

               Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, efficient, 
secure, and effective uses of information technology in the Federal 
Government, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may transfer 
these funds to one or more other agencies to carry out projects to meet 
these purposes.

                   Special Assistance to the President

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,288,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including

[[Page 133 STAT. 2450]]

electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:  Provided, That 
advances, repayments, or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

 Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                      Appropriated to the President

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  From funds made available in 
this Act under the headings ``The White House'', ``Executive Residence 
at the White House'', ``White House Repair and Restoration'', ``Council 
of Economic Advisers'', ``National Security Council and Homeland 
Security Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance 
to the President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such other 
officer as the President may designate in writing), may, with advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any 
such appropriation to any other such appropriation, to be merged with 
and available for the same time and for the same purposes as the 
appropriation to which transferred:  Provided, That the amount of an 
appropriation shall not be increased by more than 50 percent by such 
transfers:  Provided further, That no amount shall be transferred from 
``Special Assistance to the President'' or ``Official Residence of the 
Vice President'' without the approval of the Vice President.

    Sec. 202. <<NOTE: President. Cost estimates.>> (a) During fiscal 
year 2020, any Executive order or Presidential memorandum issued or 
revoked by the President shall be accompanied by a written statement 
from the Director of the Office of Management and Budget on the 
budgetary impact, including costs, benefits, and revenues, of such order 
or memorandum.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Any such statement shall include--
            (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
        order or memorandum on the Federal Government;
            (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        and outlays as the result of such order or memorandum, listed by 
        Federal agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year period 
        beginning in fiscal year 2020; and
            (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government as the 
        result of such order or memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year period 
        beginning in fiscal year 2020.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  If an Executive order or Presidential 
memorandum is issued during fiscal year 2020 due to a national 
emergency, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may issue 
the statement required by subsection (a) not later than 15 days after 
the date that such order or memorandum is issued.

    (d) <<NOTE: Cost estimates. Applicability.>>  The requirement for 
cost estimates for Presidential memoranda shall only apply for 
Presidential memoranda estimated to have a regulatory cost in excess of 
$100,000,000.

    Sec. 203.  <<NOTE: Deadline. Memorandum.>>  Not later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall issue a memorandum to all Federal 
departments, agencies,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2451]]

and corporations directing compliance with the provisions in title VII 
of this Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the President 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

TITLE III <<NOTE: Judiciary Appropriations Act, 2020.>> 

                              THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief 
Justice may approve, $87,699,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief justice and associate 
justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect of 
the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by 40 
U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,590,000, to remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary expenses 
of the court, as authorized by law, $32,700,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $19,564,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and employees

[[Page 133 STAT. 2452]]

of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically provided for, 
necessary expenses of the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair, and 
cleaning of uniforms for Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, 
as authorized by law, $5,250,234,000 (including the purchase of firearms 
and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall remain 
available until expended for space alteration projects and for furniture 
and furnishings related to new space alteration and construction 
projects.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of circuit and district judges 
(including judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
bankruptcy judges, and justices and judges retired from office or from 
regular active service.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-660), not to exceed 
$9,070,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.

                            defender services

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to 
represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 3599, and for the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services for such representations as 
authorized by law; the compensation (in accordance with the maximums 
under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil actions for 
the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d)(1); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with certain judicial 
civil forfeiture proceedings; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 4100(b); 
and for necessary training and general administrative expenses, 
$1,234,574,000 to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $53,545,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 
U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
provision of protective guard services for United States

[[Page 133 STAT. 2453]]

courthouses and other facilities housing Federal court operations, and 
the procurement, installation, and maintenance of security systems and 
equipment for United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
Federal court operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, perimeter 
security, basic security services provided by the Federal Protective 
Service, and other similar activities as authorized by section 1010 of 
the Judicial Improvement and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), 
$639,165,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the United 
States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for administering 
the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent with standards or 
guidelines agreed to by the Director of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts and the Attorney General.

            Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $94,261,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                         Federal Judicial Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as authorized 
by Public Law 90-219, $30,436,000; of which $1,800,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2021, to provide education and training 
to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,500 is 
authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                   United States Sentencing Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $19,670,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act

[[Page 133 STAT. 2454]]

may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other 
Judicial Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District 
Courts, and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  
Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and 
Other Judicial Services'' shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United States: 
 Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall 
be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the Judicial 
Conference.
    Sec. 304.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Section 3315(a) of title 40, 
United States Code, shall be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for 
``executive'' each place it appears.

    Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the United States Marshals Service shall 
provide, for such courthouses as its Director may designate in 
consultation with the Director of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts, for purposes of a pilot program, the security 
services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of Homeland 
Security to provide, except for the services specified in 40 U.S.C. 
1315(b)(2)(E). <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>> For building-specific security 
services at these courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals 
Service rather than the Department of Homeland Security.

    Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the matter 
following paragraph 12--
            (1) in the second sentence (relating to the District of 
        Kansas), by striking ``28 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
        ``29 years and 6 months''; and
            (2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the District of 
        Hawaii), by striking ``25 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
        ``26 years and 6 months''.

    (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 
28 U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second sentence (relating to the 
eastern District of Missouri) by striking ``26 years and 6 months'' and 
inserting ``27 years and 6 months''.
    (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of Justice 
Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``17 years'' and 
        inserting ``18 years'';
            (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central District 
        of California), by striking ``16 years and 6 months'' and 
        inserting ``17 years and 6 months''; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2455]]

            (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western district 
        of North Carolina), by striking ``15 years'' and inserting ``16 
        years''.

    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2020''.

TITLE IV <<NOTE: District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2020.>> 

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                              Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered by 
the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$40,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education:  Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Account.>> That the District of Columbia government 
shall maintain a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition Support 
Program that shall consist of the Federal funds appropriated to the 
Program in this Act and any subsequent appropriations, any unobligated 
balances from prior fiscal years, and any interest earned in this or any 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That the account shall be under the 
control of the District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer, who shall 
use those funds solely for the purposes of carrying out the Resident 
Tuition Support Program:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>> the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a quarterly 
financial report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for these funds showing, by object class, 
the expenditures made and the purpose therefor.

    federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

    For <<NOTE: Determination. Consultation.>> a Federal payment of 
necessary expenses, as determined by the Mayor of the District of 
Columbia in written consultation with the elected county or city 
officials of surrounding jurisdictions, $18,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, for the costs of providing public safety at events 
related to the presence of the National Capital in the District of 
Columbia, including support requested by the Director of the United 
States Secret Service in carrying out protective duties under the 
direction of the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for the costs of 
providing support to respond to immediate and specific terrorist threats 
or attacks in the District of Columbia or surrounding jurisdictions.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2456]]

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$250,088,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $14,682,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia, $125,638,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 
is for official reception and representation expenses; for the District 
of Columbia Court System, $75,518,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is 
for official reception and representation expenses; and $34,250,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, for capital improvements for 
District of Columbia courthouse facilities:  Provided, That funds made 
available for capital improvements shall be expended consistent with the 
District of Columbia Courts master plan study and facilities condition 
assessment:  Provided further, That, in addition to the amounts 
appropriated herein, fees received by the District of Columbia Courts 
for administering bar examinations and processing District of Columbia 
bar admissions may be retained and credited to this appropriation, to 
remain available until expended, for salaries and expenses associated 
with such activities, notwithstanding section 450 of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>> That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by 
the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the 
same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other 
Federal agencies:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> That 30 days after providing 
written notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the District of Columbia Courts may 
reallocate not more than $9,000,000 of the funds provided under this 
heading among the items and entities funded under this heading:  
Provided further, That the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in 
the District of Columbia may, by regulation, establish a program 
substantially similar to the program set forth in subchapter II of 
chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, for employees of the District 
of Columbia Courts.

  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Court of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, or pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad litem 
representation, training, technical assistance, and such other services 
as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad litem 
representation, payments for counsel appointed in adoption proceedings 
under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, and payments authorized 
under section 21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to services provided 
under the District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and 
Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), $46,005,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That funds provided under this heading shall 
be administered by the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the 
District of Columbia:  Provided <<NOTE: Time period.>>  further, That,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2457]]

notwithstanding any other provision of law, this appropriation shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
$248,524,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception 
and representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
Pretrial Services Agency programs, and of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for dues and assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 
2002:  Provided, That, of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$181,065,000 shall be for necessary expenses of Community Supervision 
and Sex Offender Registration, to include expenses relating to the 
supervision of adults subject to protection orders or the provision of 
services for or related to such persons, of which $3,818,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2022 for costs associated with 
relocation under a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field 
offices, and related facilities:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $67,459,000 shall be available to the 
Pretrial Services Agency, of which $998,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2022 for costs associated with relocation under a 
replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and related 
facilities:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period.>> That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies:  
Provided further, That amounts under this heading may be used for 
programmatic incentives for defendants to successfully complete their 
terms of supervision.

   federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, as 
authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $44,011,000, of which $344,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2022 for costs associated with relocation 
under a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and 
related <<NOTE: Time period.>> facilities:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of Federal agencies:  Provided 
further, That the District of Columbia Public Defender Service may 
establish for employees of the District of Columbia Public Defender 
Service a program substantially similar to the program set forth in 
subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, except that 
the maximum amount of the payment

[[Page 133 STAT. 2458]]

made under the program to any individual may not exceed the amount 
referred to in section 3523(b)(3)(B) of title 5, United States Code.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 
$2,150,000, to remain available until expended, to support initiatives 
related to the coordination of Federal and local criminal justice 
resources in the District of Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, $325,000, and for 
the Judicial Nomination Commission, $275,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in the 
District of Columbia, $52,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
for payments authorized under the Scholarships for Opportunity and 
Results Act (division C of Public Law 112-10):  
Provided, <<NOTE: Scholarships.>> That, to the extent that funds are 
available for opportunity scholarships and following the priorities 
included in section 3006 of such Act, the Secretary of Education shall 
make scholarships available to students eligible under section 3013(3) 
of such Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 211) including students who 
were not offered a scholarship during any previous school year:  
Provided further, That within funds provided for opportunity 
scholarships up to $1,200,000 shall be for the activities specified in 
sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) of the Act and up to $500,000 shall be 
for the activities specified in section 3009 of the Act.

       federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National Guard, 
$413,000, to remain available until expended for the Major General David 
F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program.

          federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the testing of 
individuals for, and the treatment of individuals with, human 
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the 
District of Columbia, $4,000,000.

  federal payment to the district of columbia water and sewer authority

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer 
Authority, $8,000,000, to remain available until expended, to continue 
implementation of the Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:  Provided, 
That the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100 
percent match for this payment.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2459]]

                       District of Columbia Funds

    Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia for the 
current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the District of Columbia 
(``General Fund'') for programs and activities set forth in the Fiscal 
Year 2020 Local Budget Act of 2019 (D.C. Act 23-78) and at rates set 
forth under such Act, as amended as of the date of enactment of this 
Act:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, except 
as provided in section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
(section 1-204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and 817 of the 
Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2009 
(secs. 47-369.01 and 47-369.02, D.C. Official Code), and provisions of 
this Act, the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating 
expenses for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2020 under this 
heading shall not exceed the estimates included in the Fiscal Year 2020 
Local Budget Act of 2019, as amended as of the date of enactment of this 
Act or the sum of the total revenues of the District of Columbia for 
such fiscal year:  Provided further, That the amount appropriated may be 
increased by proceeds of one-time transactions, which are expended for 
emergency or unanticipated operating or capital 
needs: <<NOTE: Compliance.>>  Provided further, That such increases 
shall be approved by enactment of local District law and shall comply 
with all reserve requirements contained in the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act:  Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia shall take such steps as are necessary to assure 
that the District of Columbia meets these requirements, including the 
apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and 
funds made available to the District during fiscal year 2020, except 
that the Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for operating 
expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations 
issued for capital projects.

    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2020''.

                                 TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,250,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, of which not to exceed $1,000 is for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2460]]

not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$132,500,000, of which $1,300,000 shall remain available until expended 
to carry out the program, including administrative costs, required by 
section 1405 of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act 
(Public Law 110-140; 15 U.S.C. 8004).

      administrative provision--consumer product safety commission

    Sec. 501.  During fiscal year 2020, none of the amounts made 
available by this Act may be used to finalize or implement the Safety 
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles published by the Consumer 
Product Safety Commission in the Federal Register on November 19, 2014 
(79 Fed. Reg. 68964) until after--
            (1) <<NOTE: Consultation. Study. Determination.>> the 
        National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with the National 
        Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the Department of 
        Defense, completes a study to determine--
                    (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability 
                and vehicle handling requirements proposed by such 
                standard for purposes of reducing the risk of 
                Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle (referred to in this 
                section as ``ROV'') rollovers in the off-road 
                environment, including the repeatability and 
                reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
                requirements;
                    (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be 
                prevented if the proposed requirements were adopted;
                    (C) whether there is a technical basis for the 
                proposal to provide information on a point-of-sale 
                hangtag about a ROV's rollover resistance on a 
                progressive scale; and
                    (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the 
                United States military if the proposed requirements were 
                adopted; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  a report containing the results of 
        the study completed under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; 
                and
                    (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-252), $15,171,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be 
transferred to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for 
election reform activities authorized under the Help America Vote Act of 
2002; and of which $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2021, for relocation expenses.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2461]]

                        election security grants

    Notwithstanding section 104(c)(2)(B) of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (52 U.S.C. 20904(c)(2)(B)), $425,000,000 is provided to the 
Election Assistance Commission for necessary expenses to make payments 
to States for activities to improve the administration of elections for 
Federal office, including to enhance election technology and make 
election security improvements, as authorized by sections 101, 103, and 
104 of such <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Act:  Provided, That for purposes 
of applying such sections, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands shall be deemed to be a State and, for purposes of sections 
101(d)(2) and 103(a) shall be treated in the same manner as the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the United States 
Virgin Islands:  Provided further, That each reference to the 
``Administrator of General Services'' or the ``Administrator'' in 
sections 101 and 103 shall be deemed to refer to the ``Election 
Assistance Commission'':  Provided further, That each reference to 
``$5,000,000'' in section 103 shall be deemed to refer to ``$3,000,000'' 
and each reference to ``$1,000,000'' in section 103 shall be deemed to 
refer to <<NOTE: Deadline.>> ``$600,000'':  Provided further, That not 
later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Election 
Assistance Commission shall make the payments to States under this 
heading:  Provided <<NOTE: Deadline.>> further, That not later than two 
years after receiving a payment under this heading, a State shall make 
available funds for such activities in an amount equal to 20 percent of 
the total amount of the payment made to the State under this heading.

                    Federal Communications Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $339,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
$339,000,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed and collected 
pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at $0:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a 
competitive bidding system that may be retained and made available for 
obligation shall not exceed $132,539,000 for fiscal year 2020:  Provided 
further, That, of the amount appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $11,105,700 shall be for the salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Inspector General.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2462]]

      administrative provisions--federal communications commission

    Sec. 510.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Antideficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 3998.>>  is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' each place it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

    Sec. 511.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change its 
rules or regulations for universal service support payments to implement 
the February 27, 2004, recommendations of the Federal-State Joint Board 
on Universal Service regarding single connection or primary line 
restrictions on universal service support payments.

                  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                     office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund or, only when 
appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                       Federal Election Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, $71,497,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 shall be available for reception and representation expenses.

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and consultants, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and including official reception and 
representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500) and rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $24,890,000:  Provided, 
That public members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid 
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2463]]

             Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council

                  environmental review improvement fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Environmental Review Improvement Fund 
established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m-8(d), $8,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That funds appropriated in prior 
appropriations Acts under the heading ``General Services 
Administration--General Activities--Environmental Review Improvement 
Fund'' shall be transferred to and merged with this account.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $331,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $141,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall 
be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation:  
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $18,000,000 in offsetting collections derived from fees 
sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing Sales Rule, 
promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse 
Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to this 
account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$172,000,000:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to implement subsection 
(e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1831t).

[[Page 133 STAT. 2464]]

                     General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Amounts <<NOTE: Advance approvals.>>  in the Fund, including 
revenues and collections deposited into the Fund, shall be available for 
necessary expenses of real property management and related activities 
not otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, and 
protection of federally owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings 
in the District of Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving 
governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation, and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings, including grounds, approaches, 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, and any other obligations for public buildings acquired by 
installment purchase and purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of 
$8,856,530,000, of which--
            (1) $152,400,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
        expenses, and associated design and construction services) for 
        the San Luis I Land Port of Entry, San Luis, Arizona:  Provided, 
        That the foregoing limit of costs on new construction and 
        acquisition may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
        effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent of 
        the amounts included in a transmitted prospectus, if required, 
        unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
        Appropriations of a greater amount;
            (2) $833,752,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
        construction services, of which--
                    (A) $451,695,000 is for Major Repairs and 
                Alterations; and
                    (B) $382,057,000 is for Basic Repairs and 
                Alterations:
          Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
        Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
        shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
        identified for each project, except each project in this or any 
        previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
        percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
        on Appropriations of a greater amount:  Provided further, That 
        additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully 
        approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
        approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations:  
        Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any

[[Page 133 STAT. 2465]]

        prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund 
        costs associated with implementing security improvements to 
        buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for security 
        in accordance with current law and in compliance with the 
        reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the 
        House and Senate:  Provided further, That the difference between 
        the funds appropriated and expended on any projects in this or 
        any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', 
        may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to 
        fund authorized increases in prospectus projects:  Provided 
        further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
        Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
        the Government arising from any projects under the heading 
        ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases 
        in prospectus projects;
            (3) $5,497,561,000 for rental of space to remain available 
        until expended; and
            (4) $2,372,817,000 for building operations to remain 
        available until expended:  Provided, That the total amount of 
        funds made available from this Fund to the General Services 
        Administration shall not be available for expenses of any 
        construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for 
        which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has not 
        been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for 
        each project for required expenses for the development of a 
        proposed prospectus:  Provided further, That funds available in 
        the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs 
        when advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided further, That amounts necessary to 
        provide reimbursable special services to other agencies under 40 
        U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to provide such reimbursable 
        fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private 
        or other property not in Government ownership or control as may 
        be appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to 
        perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
        shall be available from such revenues and collections:  Provided 
        further, That revenues and collections and any other sums 
        accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2020, excluding 
        reimbursements under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in excess of the 
        aggregate new obligational authority authorized for Real 
        Property Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund in this Act 
        shall remain in the Fund and shall not be available for 
        expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support responsibilities 
relating to acquisition, travel, motor vehicles, information technology 
management, and related technology activities; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $64,000,000.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2466]]

                           operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; agency-wide policy 
direction, management, and communications; and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000, of which $26,890,000 is for Real and 
Personal Property Management and Disposal; and of which $22,550,000 is 
for the Office of the Administrator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                   civilian board of contract appeals

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for the 
activities associated with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, 
$9,301,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $67,000,000:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

            allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $3,851,000.

                      federal citizen services fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Products and Programs, 
including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604; and 
for necessary expenses in support of interagency projects that enable 
the Federal Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities 
electronically, through the development and implementation of innovative 
uses of information technology; $55,000,000, to be deposited into the 
Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided, That the previous amount may 
be transferred to Federal agencies to carry out the purpose of the 
Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided further, That the 
appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, and collections deposited into 
the Fund shall be available until expended for necessary expenses of 
Federal Citizen Services and other activities that enable the Federal 
Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities electronically 
in the aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:  Provided further, 
That appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, and collections accruing 
to this Fund during fiscal year 2020 in excess of such amount shall 
remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2467]]

of the total amount appropriated, up to $5,000,000 shall be available 
for support functions and full-time hires to support activities related 
to the Administration's requirements under Title II of the Foundations 
for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act (Public Law 115-435):  Provided 
further, That the transfer authorities provided herein shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.

                  pre-election presidential transition

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Pre-Election Presidential 
Transition Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-283), not to exceed $9,620,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That such 
amounts may be transferred to ``Acquisition Services Fund'' or ``Federal 
Buildings Fund'' to reimburse obligations incurred for the purposes 
provided herein in fiscal years 2019 and 2020:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading shall be in addition to any 
other amounts available for such purposes.

                      technology modernization fund

    For the Technology Modernization Fund, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for technology-related modernization 
activities.

       administrative provisions--general services administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 520.  Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 521.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2020 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements: <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>   Provided, That any 
proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 522. <<NOTE: Courts. Study.>>  Except as otherwise provided in 
this title, funds made available by this Act shall be used to transmit a 
fiscal year 2021 request for United States Courthouse construction only 
if the request: (1) meets the design guide standards for construction as 
established and approved by the General Services Administration, the 
Judicial Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management 
and Budget; (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of 
the United States as set out in its approved Courthouse Project 
Priorities plan; and (3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization 
study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.

    Sec. 523. <<NOTE: Determination.>>  None of the funds provided in 
this Act may be used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, 
provide cleaning services, security enhancements, or any other service 
usually provided through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that 
does not pay the rate per square foot assessment for space and services 
as determined by the General Services Administration

[[Page 133 STAT. 2468]]

in consideration of the Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public 
Law 92-313).

    Sec. 524. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  From funds made available under 
the heading Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
Revenue, claims against the Government of less than $250,000 arising 
from direct construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be 
liquidated from savings effected in other construction projects with 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 525. <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination. Statement.>>  In any 
case in which the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting lease authority pursuant 
to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the Administrator of the 
General Services Administration under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Administrator 
shall ensure that the delineated area of procurement is identical to the 
delineated area included in the prospectus for all lease agreements, 
except that, if the Administrator determines that the delineated area of 
the procurement should not be identical to the delineated area included 
in the prospectus, the Administrator shall provide an explanatory 
statement to each of such committees and the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate prior to 
exercising any lease authority provided in the resolution.

    Sec. 526. <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>>  With respect to each 
project funded under the heading ``Major Repairs and Alterations'', and 
with respect to E-Government projects funded under the heading ``Federal 
Citizen Services Fund'', the Administrator of General Services shall 
submit a spending plan and explanation for each project to be undertaken 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

    Sec. 527.  In addition to the amounts otherwise made available in 
this Act for the General Services Administration, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for the Administrator of General 
Services to implement changes to the System for Award Management 
providing for submission of the authenticated certification described 
under the heading ``Internal Revenue Service, Operations Support''.

                  Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                          salaries and expenses

    For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund, 
established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, $1,670,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and the Whistleblower Protection Act 
of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including

[[Page 133 STAT. 2469]]

services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, direct procurement of survey printing, and not to exceed 
$2,000 for official reception and representation expenses, $44,490,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021, and in addition not to 
exceed $2,345,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for 
administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

             Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

             morris k. udall and stewart l. udall trust fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, 
pursuant to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation Act (20 
U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $1,800,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which, notwithstanding sections 8 and 9 of such Act, up to $1,000,000 
shall be available to carry out the activities authorized by section 
6(7) of Public Law 102-259 and section 817(a) of Public Law 106-568 (20 
U.S.C. 5604(7)):  Provided, That all current and previous amounts 
transferred to the Office of Inspector General of the Department of the 
Interior will remain available until expended for audits and 
investigations of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, 
consistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as 
amended, and for annual independent financial audits of the Morris K. 
Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation pursuant to the Accountability of 
Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289):  Provided further, That 
previous amounts transferred to the Office of Inspector General of the 
Department of the Interior may be transferred to the Morris K. Udall and 
Stewart L. Udall Foundation for annual independent financial audits 
pursuant to the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 
107-289).

                  environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and Records Administration and archived Federal 
records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, the 
activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the operations 
and maintenance of the electronic records archives, the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning, $359,000,000, of which $22,000,000

[[Page 133 STAT. 2470]]

shall remain available until expended for the repair and alteration of 
the National Archives facility in College Park, Maryland, and related 
improvements necessary to enhance the Federal Government's ability to 
electronically preserve, manage, and store Government records, and of 
which up to $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended to 
implement the Civil Rights Cold Case Records Collection Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-426).

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act of 2008, 
Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, $4,823,000.

                         repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

         national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                community development revolving loan fund

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $1,500,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2021, for technical assistance to low-
income designated credit unions.

                       Office of Government Ethics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the 
Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading on Congressional 
Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $17,500,000.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2471]]

                     Office of Personnel Management

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of OPM and the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and payment of per diem and/or 
subsistence allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities 
require an employee to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, 
$145,130,000:  Provided, That of the total amount made available under 
this heading, up to $14,000,000 shall remain available until expended, 
for information technology infrastructure modernization and Trust Fund 
Federal Financial System migration or modernization, and shall be in 
addition to funds otherwise made available for such purposes:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount made available under this heading, 
$1,068,000 may be made available for strengthening the capacity and 
capabilities of the acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office of 
Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), 
including the recruitment, hiring, training, and retention of such 
workforce and information technology in support of acquisition workforce 
effectiveness or for management solutions to improve acquisition 
management; and in addition $154,625,000 for administrative expenses, to 
be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of OPM without regard to 
other statutes, including direct procurement of printed materials, for 
the retirement and insurance programs:  Provided further, That the 
provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the authority to use 
applicable trust funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 
8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall 
be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of 
OPM established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or 
any successor unit of like purpose:  Provided further, That the 
President's Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2020, accept 
donations of money, property, and personal services:  Provided further, 
That such donations, including those from prior years, may be used for 
the development of publicity materials to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted for 
travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2472]]

                       office of inspector general

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed $25,265,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General:  Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                        Office of Special Counsel

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
payment of fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $27,500,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission in 
carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement 
Act (Public Law 109-435), $16,615,000, to be derived by transfer from 
the Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by section 603(a) of 
such Act.

               Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $8,200,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,815,000,000, to remain

[[Page 133 STAT. 2473]]

available until expended; of which not less than $15,662,000 shall be 
for the Office of Inspector General; of which not to exceed $75,000 
shall be available for a permanent secretariat for the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions; and of which not to exceed 
$100,000 shall be available for expenses for consultations and meetings 
hosted by the Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory 
officials, members of their delegations and staffs to exchange views 
concerning securities matters, such expenses to include necessary 
logistic and administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission 
staff and foreign invitees in attendance including: (1) incidental 
expenses such as meals; (2) travel and transportation; and (3) related 
lodging or subsistence.
    In addition to the foregoing appropriation, for move, replication, 
and related costs associated with a replacement lease for the 
Commission's New York Regional Office facilities, not to exceed 
$10,525,000, to remain available until expended.
    For purposes of calculating the fee rate under section 31(j) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee(j)) for fiscal year 
2020, all amounts appropriated under this heading shall be deemed to be 
the regular appropriation to the Commission for fiscal year 2020:  
Provided, That fees and charges authorized by section 31 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to 
this account as offsetting collections:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $1,815,000,000 of such offsetting collections shall be available 
until expended for necessary expenses of this account and not to exceed 
$10,525,000 of such offsetting collections shall be available until 
expended for move, replication, and related costs under this heading 
associated with a replacement lease for the Commission's New York 
Regional Office facilities:  Provided further, That the total amount 
appropriated under this heading from the general fund for fiscal year 
2020 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as to 
result in a final total fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at not more than $0:  Provided further, That if any 
amount of the appropriation for move, replication, and related costs 
associated with a replacement lease for the Commission's New York 
Regional Office facilities is subsequently de-obligated by the 
Commission, such amount that was derived from the general fund shall be 
returned to the general fund, and such amounts that were derived from 
fees or assessments collected for such purpose shall be paid to each 
national securities exchange and national securities association, 
respectively, in proportion to any fees or assessments paid by such 
national securities exchange or national securities association under 
section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in 
fiscal year 2020.

      administrative provision--securities and exchange commission

    Sec. 530. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Within one year of the enactment of 
this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate, a report concerning the Municipal Securities 
Rulemaking Board. The report shall detail:
            (1) the Commission's legal authorities with respect to:

[[Page 133 STAT. 2474]]

                    (A) the composition of the board and the selection 
                of board members; and
                    (B) the compensation of board members and executive 
                staff;
            (2) whether board member and executive staff compensation is 
        commensurate with that of State and local public finance 
        officials, including State treasurers and municipal finance 
        directors; and
            (3) whether the current board member selection process 
        ensures adequate representation of municipal securities 
        stakeholders and accountability to local governments and 
        municipal bondholders.

                        Selective Service System

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$750 for official reception and representation expenses; $27,100,000:  
Provided, <<NOTE: President.>> That during the current fiscal year, the 
President may exempt this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 
1341, whenever the President deems such action to be necessary in the 
interest of national defense:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Induction.>> none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into 
the Armed Forces of the United States.

                      Small Business Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of title 31, United States Code, 
and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $270,157,000, of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be 
available for examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight 
activities:  Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge 
fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small Business 
Administration, and certain loan program activities, including fees 
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Business Act:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from all such 
activities shall be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out these purposes without further 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Small Business 
Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance with section 132(a) of 
division K of Public Law 108-447, during fiscal year 2020:  Provided 
further, That $6,100,000 shall be available for the Loan Modernization 
and Accounting System, to be available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided further, That $3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State 
Technology Partnership Program under section 34 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 657d).

[[Page 133 STAT. 2475]]

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For necessary expenses of programs supporting entrepreneurial and 
small business development, $261,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That $135,000,000 shall be available to 
fund grants for performance in fiscal year 2020 or fiscal year 2021 as 
authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act:  Provided further, 
That $34,500,000 shall be for marketing, management, and technical 
assistance under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make microloans under the microloan 
program:  Provided further, That $19,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to States to carry out export programs that assist small business 
concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 649(l)).

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$21,900,000.

                           office of advocacy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in carrying out the 
provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.) and 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), 
$9,120,000, to remain available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, and for the cost of guaranteed loans as authorized by section 
7(a) of the Small Business Act (Public Law 83-163), $99,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That subject to 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 
2020 commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $7,500,000,000:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2020 commitments for general 
business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act 
shall not exceed $30,000,000,000 for a combination of amortizing term 
loans and the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by revolving 
loans:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2020 commitments for 
loans authorized under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed 
$7,500,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2020 
commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
$4,000,000,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2020, 
guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small 
Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In 
addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $155,150,000, which

[[Page 133 STAT. 2476]]

may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries 
and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, $177,136,000, to 
be available until expended, of which $1,600,000 is for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which $167,136,000 is for direct administrative 
expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the direct loan 
program, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations 
for Salaries and Expenses; and of which $8,400,000 is for indirect 
administrative expenses for the direct loan program, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses:  Provided, That, of the funds provided under this heading, 
$150,888,000 shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5122(2)):  Provided further, That the amount for major disasters 
under this heading is designated by Congress as being for disaster 
relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177).

        administrative provisions--small business administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 540.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 541. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  Not to exceed 3 percent of 
any appropriation made available in this Act for the Small Business 
Administration under the headings ``Salaries and Expenses'' and 
``Business Loans Program Account'' may be transferred to the 
Administration's information technology system modernization and working 
capital fund (IT WCF), as authorized by section 1077(b)(1) of title X of 
division A of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018, for the purposes specified in section 1077(b)(3) of such Act, upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate:  Provided, That amounts transferred to 
the IT WCF under this section shall remain available for obligation 
through September 30, 2023.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2477]]

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $56,711,000:  Provided, That 
mail <<NOTE: Mail.>> for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall 
continue to be free:  Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural 
delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any individual participating in a State 
or local program of child support enforcement, a fee for information 
requested or provided concerning an address of a postal customer:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close small rural and other small post offices:  
Provided further, That the Postal Service may not destroy, and shall 
continue to offer for sale, any copies of the Multinational Species 
Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp, as authorized under the 
Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-241).

                       office of inspector general

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund and 
expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal Accountability 
and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435).

                         United States Tax Court

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $3,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses: $53,000,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That travel 
expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written certificate of the 
judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                     (including rescission of funds)

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2478]]

    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 603. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  The expenditure of any appropriation 
under this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where 
such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 608. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>>  Except as otherwise provided 
in this Act, none of the funds provided in this Act, provided by 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in this 
Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
2020, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees and available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds that: (1) creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, 
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, 
project, or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
the Congress; (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
by the Committee on Appropriations of either the House of 
Representatives or the Senate for a different purpose; (5) augments 
existing programs, projects, or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less; (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or 
activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) 
creates or reorganizes offices, programs, or activities unless prior 
approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided, That 
prior <<NOTE: Consultation.>> to any significant reorganization, 
restructuring, relocation, or closing of offices, programs, or 
activities, each agency or entity funded in this Act shall consult with 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>> not later than 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this 
Act shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate to establish the baseline

[[Page 133 STAT. 2479]]

for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the 
current fiscal year:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That at 
a minimum the report shall include: (1) a table for each appropriation, 
detailing both full-time employee equivalents and budget authority, with 
separate columns to display the prior year enacted level, the 
President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments 
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted 
level; (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation and its 
respective prior year enacted level by object class and program, 
project, and activity as detailed in this Act, in the accompanying 
report, or in the budget appendix for the respective appropriation, 
whichever is more detailed, and which shall apply to all items for which 
a dollar amount is specified and to all programs for which new budget 
authority is provided, as well as to discretionary grants and 
discretionary grant allocations; and (3) an identification of items of 
special congressional interest: <<NOTE: Penalties.>>  Provided further, 
That the amount appropriated or limited for salaries and expenses for an 
agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after the 
required date that the report has not been submitted to the Congress.

    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 2020 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 2020 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2021, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, <<NOTE: Approval request.>>  That a request shall 
be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds:  Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.

    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used by the Executive Office of the President to request--
            (1) any official <<NOTE: Background investigation.>>  
        background investigation report on any individual from the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            (2) a determination <<NOTE: Determination. Tax exemption.>>  
        with respect to the treatment of an organization as described in 
        section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt 
        from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code from the 
        Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
            (1) in the <<NOTE: Background investigation. Deadline.>>  
        case of an official background investigation report, if such 
        individual has given express written consent for such request 
        not more than 6 months prior to the date of such request and 
        during the same presidential administration; or
            (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under chapter 
15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply with respect to a 
contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established 
under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations

[[Page 133 STAT. 2480]]

Act) funds made available to the Office of Personnel Management pursuant 
to court approval.
    Sec. 613. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>   No funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal employees 
health benefits program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.

    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not 
apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United States 
Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in section 103 of title 41, 
United States Code).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United States 
Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or commission 
funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that agency, nor may such 
agency or commission accept, payment or reimbursement from a non-Federal 
entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the purpose of 
enabling an officer or employee to attend and participate in any meeting 
or similar function relating to the official duties of the officer or 
employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement is a person 
or entity subject to regulation by such agency or commission, or 
represents a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, unless the person or entity is an organization described in 
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds made 
available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities 
and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act may be used for the 
interagency funding and sponsorship of a joint advisory committee to 
advise on emerging regulatory issues.
    Sec. 618. <<NOTE: Contracts. Consultation.>> (a)(1) Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, an Executive agency covered by this Act 
otherwise authorized to enter into contracts for either leases or the 
construction or alteration of real property for office, meeting, 
storage, or other space must consult with the General Services 
Administration before issuing a solicitation for offers of new leases or 
construction contracts, and in the case of succeeding leases, before 
entering into negotiations with the current lessor.

    (2) <<NOTE: President.>>  Any such agency with authority to enter 
into an emergency lease may do so during any period declared by the 
President to require emergency leasing authority with respect to such 
agency.

    (b) For <<NOTE: Definition.>> purposes of this section, the term 
``Executive agency covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency 
provided funds by this Act, but does not include the General Services 
Administration or the United States Postal Service.

    Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following activities 
the amounts required under current law:
            (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
            (2) Payments to--
                    (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 377(o));

[[Page 133 STAT. 2481]]

                    (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 376(c)); and
                    (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims 
                Judges' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
            (3) Payment of Government contributions--
                    (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
                employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
                United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
                    (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
                employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 
                87).
            (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
        increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
        and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
            (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
        provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 
        of title 5, United States Code.

    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any amount 
appropriated by this section from any otherwise applicable limitation on 
the use of funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 620. <<NOTE: Time periods.>> (a) In addition to amounts made 
available in prior fiscal years, the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (Board) shall have authority to obligate funds for the scholarship 
program established by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-204) in fiscal year 2020 in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the amount of funds collected by the Board between January 1, 
2019, and September 30, 2019, including accrued interest, and between 
October 1, 2019, and September 30, 2020, including accrued interest, as 
a result of the assessment of monetary penalties. Funds available for 
obligation in fiscal year 2020 shall remain available until expended.

    (b) Beginning in <<NOTE: Effective dates. Time periods. 15 USC 7219 
note.>> fiscal year 2021 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Board 
shall have authority to obligate funds for the scholarship program 
established by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
(Public Law 107-204) in such fiscal year in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the amounts of funds collected by the Board between October 1 
and September 30 of such fiscal year, including accrued interest, as a 
result of the assessment of monetary penalties. Funds made available for 
obligation in any fiscal year shall be in addition to amounts made 
available in prior fiscal years and shall remain available until 
expended.

    Sec. 621.  None <<NOTE: Reports. Compliance.>>  of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used by the Federal Trade Commission to 
complete the draft report entitled ``Interagency Working Group on Food 
Marketed to Children: Preliminary Proposed Nutrition Principles to Guide 
Industry Self-Regulatory Efforts'' unless the Interagency Working Group 
on Food Marketed to Children complies with Executive Order No. 13563.

    Sec. 622. (a) The head of each executive branch agency funded by 
this Act shall ensure that the Chief Information Officer of the agency 
has the authority to participate in decisions regarding the budget 
planning process related to information technology.
    (b) Amounts <<NOTE: Consultation.>> appropriated for any executive 
branch agency funded by this Act that are available for information 
technology shall be allocated within the agency, consistent with the 
provisions

[[Page 133 STAT. 2482]]

of appropriations Acts and budget guidelines and recommendations from 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in such manner as 
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Information Officer of the 
agency in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of the agency 
and budget officials.

    Sec. 623.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 624.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by a provider of 
electronic communication service to the public or remote computing 
service of the contents of a wire or electronic communication that is in 
electronic storage with the provider (as such terms are defined in 
sections 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States Code) in a manner that 
violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 625.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change the 
rules or regulations of the Commission for universal service high-cost 
support for competitive eligible telecommunications carriers in a way 
that is inconsistent with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section 54.307 
of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on July 15, 2015: 
 Provided, That this section shall not prohibit the Commission from 
considering, developing, or adopting other support mechanisms as an 
alternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
    Sec. 626.  No funds <<NOTE: Records.>> provided in this Act shall be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access to 
any records, documents, or other materials available to the department 
or agency over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, or to prevent or impede that 
Inspector General's access to such records, documents, or other 
materials, under any provision of law, except a provision of law that 
expressly refers to the Inspector General and expressly limits the 
Inspector General's right of access. A department or agency covered by 
this section shall provide its Inspector General with access to all such 
records, documents, and other materials in a timely manner. Each 
Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on 
disclosure relevant to the information provided by the establishment 
over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
Inspector General Act of 1978. <<NOTE: Reports. Compliance.>> Each 
Inspector General covered by this section shall report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate within 
5 calendar days any failures to comply with this requirement.

    Sec. 627. (a) None <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, 
adjudication activities, or other law enforcement- or victim assistance-
related activity.
    Sec. 628.  None of <<NOTE: Contracts. Determination.>>  the funds 
appropriated or other-wise made available by this Act may be used to pay 
award or incentive fees for contractors whose performance has been 
judged to be below

[[Page 133 STAT. 2483]]

satisfactory, behind schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet the 
basic requirements of a contract, unless the Agency determines that any 
such deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program and unless such awards or incentive fees are consistent 
with 16.401(e)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

    Sec. 629. (a) None <<NOTE: Determinations. Notifications.>>  of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to pay for travel and 
conference activities that result in a total cost to an Executive branch 
department, agency, board or commission funded by this Act of more than 
$500,000 at any single conference unless the agency or entity determines 
that such attendance is in the national interest and advance notice is 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that includes the basis of that 
determination.

    (b) None of the funds made available under this Act may be used to 
pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 employees, who are 
stationed in the United States, at any single conference occurring 
outside the United States unless the agency or entity determines that 
such attendance is in the national interest and advance notice is 
transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that includes the basis of that 
determination.
    Sec. 630.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for first-class or business-class travel by the employees of executive 
branch agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 301-
10.122 through 301-10.125 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 631.  In addition to any amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available for expenses related to enhancements to www.oversight.gov, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be provided for an 
additional amount for such purpose to the Inspectors General Council 
Fund established pursuant to Section 11(c)(3)(B) of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.):  Provided, That these amounts shall 
be in addition to any amounts or any authority available to the Council 
of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency under section 11 
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 632.  Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations available under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration--Business Loans Program Account'' heading, $16,369,000 
are hereby permanently rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be 
rescinded under this section from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 633.  None of <<NOTE: Notification.>> the funds made available 
by this Act may be obligated on contracts in excess of $5,000 for public 
relations, as that term is defined in Office and Management and Budget 
Circular A-87 (revised May 10, 2004), unless advance notice of such an 
obligation is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 634.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue, or 
implement any rule, regulation, or order regarding the

[[Page 133 STAT. 2484]]

disclosure of political contributions, contributions to tax exempt 
organizations, or dues paid to trade associations.
    Sec. 635.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
enforce section 540 of Public Law 110-329 (122 Stat. 3688) or section 
538 of Public Law 112-74 (125 Stat. 976; 6 U.S.C. 190 note).

                                TITLE VII

                   GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 701. <<NOTE: Drug-free workplace.>>  No department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated funds under 
this or any other Act for fiscal year 2020 shall obligate or expend any 
such funds, unless such department, agency, or instrumentality has in 
place, and will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy 
designed to ensure that all of its workplaces are free from the illegal 
use, possession, or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in 
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and 
employees of such department, agency, or instrumentality.

    Sec. 702. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>>  Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States Code, for 
the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement vehicles, protective vehicles, and 
undercover surveillance vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except 
station wagons for which the maximum shall be $19,997:  Provided, That 
these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type 
vehicles:  Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or hybrid 
vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976:  Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels 
vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of 
comparable conventionally fueled vehicles:  Provided further, That the 
limits set forth in this section shall not apply to any vehicle that is 
a commercial item and which operates on alternative fuel, including but 
not limited to electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles.

    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 704.  <<NOTE: 53 USC 3101 note.>> Unless otherwise specified in 
law during the current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation 
contained in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation 
of any officer or employee of the Government of the United States 
(including any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the 
Government of the United States) whose post of duty is in the 
continental United States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) is a person who is lawfully admitted for

[[Page 133 STAT. 2485]]

permanent residence and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 
1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is admitted as a refugee under 8 
U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a 
declaration of intention to become a lawful permanent resident and then 
a citizen when eligible; or (4) is a person who owes allegiance to the 
United <<NOTE: Affidavits.>> States:  Provided, That for purposes of 
this section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be considered 
prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section with respect 
to his or her status are being complied with:  Provided further, That 
for <<NOTE: Affidavits.>> purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such 
affidavits shall be submitted prior to employment and updated thereafter 
as necessary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Penalties.>> That any person 
making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and upon 
conviction, shall be fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not 
more than 1 year, or both:  Provided further, That the above penal 
clause shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other 
provisions of existing law:  Provided further, That any payment made to 
any officer or employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall 
be recoverable in action by the Federal Government:  Provided further, 
That this <<NOTE: Time period.>> section shall not apply to any person 
who is an officer or employee of the Government of the United States on 
the date of enactment of this Act, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  That this section does not apply to the 
employment as Wildland firefighters for not more than 120 days of 
nonresident aliens employed by the Department of the Interior or the 
USDA Forest Service pursuant to an agreement with another country.

    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13834 
        (May 17, 2018), including any such programs adopted prior to the 
        effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2486]]

    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available:  Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards (except 
Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, or similar 
groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which do not have 
a prior and specific statutory approval to receive financial support 
from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved 
pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710.  During <<NOTE: Notification.>> the period in which the 
head of any department or agency, or any other officer or civilian 
employee of the Federal Government appointed by the President of the 
United States, holds office, no funds may be obligated or expended in 
excess of $5,000 to furnish or redecorate the office of such department 
head, agency head, officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or 
make improvements for any such office, unless advance notice of such 
furnishing or redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate. For 
the <<NOTE: Definition.>> purposes of this section, the term ``office'' 
shall include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as 
well as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of 
which is directly controlled by the individual.

    Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives which 
benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as provided 
by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
    Sec. 712. (a) <<NOTE: Certification.>> None of the funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be obligated or expended by any 
department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government 
to pay the salaries or expenses of any individual appointed to a 
position of a confidential or policy-determining character that is 
excepted from the competitive service under section 3302 of title 5, 
United States Code, (pursuant to schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of 
title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations) unless the head of the 
applicable department, agency, or other instrumentality employing such 
schedule C individual certifies to the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management that the schedule C position occupied by the 
individual was not created solely or primarily in order to detail the 
individual to the White House.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2487]]

    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed forces detailed to or from an element 
of the intelligence community (as that term is defined under section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
    Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of 
        the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).

    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 715.  <<NOTE: Lobbying.>> No part of any funds appropriated in 
this or any other Act shall be used by an agency of the executive 
branch, other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the 
preparation, distribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio,

[[Page 133 STAT. 2488]]

television, or film presentation designed to support or defeat 
legislation pending before the Congress, except in presentation to the 
Congress itself.

    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address to 
any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing, 
telephone, or electronic mailing lists to any person or any organization 
outside of the Federal Government without the approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private 
contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not heretofore authorized by Congress.
    Sec. 719. <<NOTE: Definition.>> (a) In this section, the term 
``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
        105; and
            (2) includes a military department, as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the United States Postal Service, and the 
        Postal Regulatory Commission.

    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest 
effort and a reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Federal 
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of FASAB administrative costs.
    Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  31 U.S.C. 1346 
and section 708 of this Act, the head of each Executive department and 
agency is hereby authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General 
Services Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the approval of 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made 
available for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, 
including rebates from charge card and other contracts:  Provided, That 
these funds <<NOTE: Consultation.>> shall be administered by the 
Administrator of General Services to support Government-wide and other 
multi-agency financial, information technology, procurement, and other 
management innovations, initiatives, and activities, including improving 
coordination and reducing duplication, as approved by the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the 
appropriate interagency and multi-agency groups designated by the 
Director (including the President's Management Council for overall 
management improvement initiatives, the Chief Financial Officers Council 
for financial management initiatives, the Chief Information Officers 
Council for information technology initiatives, the Chief Human Capital 
Officers Council for human

[[Page 133 STAT. 2489]]

capital initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for 
procurement initiatives, and the Performance Improvement Council for 
performance improvement initiatives):  Provided further, That the total 
funds transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve 
coordination, reduce duplication, and for other activities related to 
Federal Government Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C. 1120, and not 
to exceed $17,000,000 for Government-Wide innovations, initiatives, and 
activities:  Provided further, That the funds transferred to or for 
reimbursement of ``General Services Administration, Government-wide 
Policy'' during fiscal year 2020 shall remain available for obligation 
through September 30, 2021:  Provided further, That such <<NOTE: Time 
period. Notification.>> transfers or reimbursements may only be made 
after 15 days following notification of the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate by the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget.

    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Breastfeeding.>>  any other 
provision of law, a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a 
Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are 
otherwise authorized to be present at the location.

    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of specific 
projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to carry out the 
purposes of the National Science and Technology Council (authorized by 
Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple Federal departments, 
agencies, or entities: <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Provided, That the Office of 
Management and Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of 
and resources connected with the National Science and Technology Council 
to the Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 724.  Any <<NOTE: Compliance.>> request for proposals, 
solicitation, grant application, form, notification, press release, or 
other publications involving the distribution of Federal funds shall 
comply with any relevant requirements in part 200 of title 2, Code of 
Federal Regulations:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Applicability.>> this 
section shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and grants 
received by a State receiving Federal funds.

    Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
        derived from any means, that includes any personally 
        identifiable information relating to an individual's access to 
        or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the agency; or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
        includes any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental Internet 
        site.

    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2490]]

            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet site 
        and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet site 
        services or to protecting the rights or property of the provider 
        of the Internet site.

    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety and 
        soundness, overall financial condition, management practices and 
        policies and compliance with applicable standards as provided in 
        law.

    Sec. 726. (a) <<NOTE: Contracts. Drugs and drug 
abuse. Contraceptives.>> None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.

    (b) Nothing <<NOTE: Religion.>> in this section shall apply to a 
contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the plan 
        objects to such coverage on the basis of religious beliefs.

    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  in this section shall be construed 
to require coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.

    Sec. 727. <<NOTE: Anti-doping.>>  The United States is committed to 
ensuring the health of its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic 
athletes, and supports the strict adherence to anti-doping in sport 
through testing, adjudication, education, and research as performed by 
nationally recognized oversight authorities.

    Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and agencies may 
be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce restrictions or 
limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Program, or to 
implement the proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel Management 
to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 5 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal Register, volume 
68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the detail of 
executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
    Sec. 730.  <<NOTE: Contracts. Advance approval.>>  Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no executive branch agency shall purchase, 
construct, or lease any additional facilities, except within or 
contiguous to existing locations, to be

[[Page 133 STAT. 2491]]

used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use of 
additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for 
training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.

    Sec. 731.  <<NOTE: News stories.>> Unless otherwise authorized by 
existing law, none of the funds provided in this or any other Act may be 
used by an executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story 
intended for broadcast or distribution in the United States, unless the 
story includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.

    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and regulations implementing that 
section.
    Sec. 733. (a) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  In General.--None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be 
used for any Federal Government contract with any foreign incorporated 
entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 
section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or 
any subsidiary of such an entity.

    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any <<NOTE: Determination.>> Secretary 
        shall waive subsection (a) with respect to any Federal 
        Government contract under the authority of such Secretary if the 
        Secretary determines that the waiver is required in the interest 
        of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.

    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 734.  During fiscal year 2020, for each employee who--
            (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
        title 5, United States Code; or
            (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
        chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a payment 
        as an incentive to separate, the separating agency shall remit 
        to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to the Office of Personnel Management's average unit cost 
        of processing a retirement claim for the preceding fiscal year. 
        Such amounts shall be available until expended to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and shall be deemed to be an administrative 
        expense under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States 
        Code.

    Sec. 735. (a) None <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  of the funds made available 
in this or any other Act may be used to recommend or require any entity 
submitting an offer for a Federal contract to disclose any of the 
following information as a condition of submitting the offer:
            (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
        independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering 
        communication that is made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a 
        candidate for election for Federal office or to a political 
        committee, or

[[Page 133 STAT. 2492]]

        that is otherwise made with respect to any election for Federal 
        office.
            (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
        described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
        person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
        person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
        paragraph (1).

    (b) In <<NOTE: Definitions.>> this section, each of the terms 
``contribution'', ``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', 
``electioneering communication'', ``candidate'', ``election'', and 
``Federal office'' has the meaning given such term in the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).

    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available in this or any other Act 
may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or 
employee of the Federal government, including the President, the Vice 
President, a member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident 
Commissioner to Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as 
defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of 
an office of the legislative branch.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>>  any 
other provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this 
section, no part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2020, 
by this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate 
employee described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States 
Code--
            (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
        fiscal years until the normal effective date of the applicable 
        wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 
        2020, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable for the 
        applicable grade and step of the applicable wage schedule in 
        accordance with such section; and
            (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2020, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
        more than the sum of--
                    (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2020 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (ii) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2020 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments which was 
                effective in the previous fiscal year under such 
                section.

    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which paragraph (1) is in 
effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
    (3) For the <<NOTE: Determination. Regulations.>>  purposes of this 
subsection, the rates payable to an employee who is covered by this 
subsection and who is paid from a schedule not in existence on September 
30, 2019, shall

[[Page 133 STAT. 2493]]

be determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel 
Management.

    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this subsection may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 2019, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this subsection.
    (5) This <<NOTE: Applicability.>> subsection shall apply with 
respect to pay for service performed after September 30, 2019.

    (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life 
insurance, or any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the basis 
of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this subsection shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this subsection at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this subsection not in 
effect.
    (8) The <<NOTE: Determination.>> Office of Personnel Management may 
provide for exceptions to the limitations imposed by this subsection if 
the Office determines that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the 
recruitment or retention of qualified employees.

    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates of basic 
pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 2020 
under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall be--
            (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
        the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted pursuant 
        to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 5304 of 
        title 5, United States Code:  Provided, That prevailing rate 
        employees at locations where there are no employees whose pay is 
        increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United 
        States Code, and prevailing rate employees described in section 
        5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall be considered 
        to be located in the pay locality designated as ``Rest of United 
        States'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for purposes of this subsection; and
            (2) effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  as of the first day 
        of the first applicable pay period beginning after September 30, 
        2019.

    Sec. 738. (a) The <<NOTE: Reports. Contracts.>>  head of any 
Executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office funded 
by this or any other appropriations Act shall submit annual reports to 
the Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity without 
an Inspector General, regarding the costs and contracting procedures 
related to each conference held by any such department, agency, board, 
commission, or office during fiscal year 2020 for which the cost to the 
United States Government was more than $100,000.

    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2494]]

                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to and 
                from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted by 
                the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.

    (c) Within <<NOTE: Deadline. Time period. Notification.>>  15 days 
after the end of a quarter, the head of any such department, agency, 
board, commission, or office shall notify the Inspector General or 
senior ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General, of 
the date, location, and number of employees attending a conference held 
by any Executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office 
funded by this or any other appropriations Act during fiscal year 2020 
for which the cost to the United States Government was more than 
$20,000.

    (d) <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>>  A grant or contract funded by 
amounts appropriated by this or any other appropriations Act may not be 
used for the purpose of defraying the costs of a conference described in 
subsection (c) that is not directly and programmatically related to the 
purpose for which the grant or contract was awarded, such as a 
conference held in connection with planning, training, assessment, 
review, or other routine purposes related to a project funded by the 
grant or contract.

    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities that 
are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-
12-12 dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revisions to that memorandum.
    Sec. 739.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce funding 
for a program, project, or activity as proposed in the President's 
budget request for a fiscal year until such proposed change is 
subsequently enacted in an appropriation Act, or unless such change is 
made pursuant to the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or any 
other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or apply the rule 
entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the Office of Personnel 
Management in the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 20180 
et seq.).
    Sec. 741.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to begin or announce a 
study or public-private competition regarding the conversion to 
contractor performance of any function performed by Federal employees 
pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any other 
administrative regulation, directive, or policy.
    Sec. 742. (a) <<NOTE: Grants. Confidentiality agreements.>> None of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
Act may be available for a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement 
with an entity that requires employees or contractors of such entity 
seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal 
confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise 
restricting such employees

[[Page 133 STAT. 2495]]

or contractors from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a 
designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal 
department or agency authorized to receive such information.

    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other 
form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the 
nondisclosure of classified information.
    Sec. 743. <<NOTE: Nondisclosure agreements.>> (a) No funds 
appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to implement or 
enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government 
or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, 
form, or agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or 
otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created 
by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified 
information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an 
Inspector General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or 
mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a 
substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any 
other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, 
obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by controlling 
Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'':  Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding provision of this section, a nondisclosure policy form or 
agreement that is to be executed by a person connected with the conduct 
of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an 
employee or officer of the United States Government, may contain 
provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such 
document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at a minimum, 
require that the person will not disclose any classified information 
received in the course of such activity unless specifically authorized 
to do so by the United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall 
also make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress, or to 
an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of 
Justice, that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of law.

    (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be implemented and 
enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it complies with the 
requirements for such agreement that were in effect when the agreement 
was entered into.
    (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
implement or enforce any agreement entered into during fiscal year 2014 
which does not contain substantially similar language to that required 
in subsection (a).
    Sec. 744. 
<<NOTE: Contracts. Memorandums. Grants. Loans. Corporations. Tax 
liability. Determination.>> None of the funds made available by this or 
any other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or 
provide a loan or loan guarantee to, any corporation that has any unpaid 
Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and 
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is 
not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a Federal 
agency has considered

[[Page 133 STAT. 2496]]

suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of 
the Government.

    Sec. 745. 
<<NOTE: Contracts. Memorandums. Grants. Loans. Corporations. Criminal 
violations. Time period. Determinations.>> None of the funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to enter into a contract, 
memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to, any corporation that was 
convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within 
the preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
conviction, unless a Federal agency has considered suspension or 
debarment of the corporation and has made a determination that this 
further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government.

    Sec. 746. <<NOTE: Notification.>> (a) During fiscal year 2020, on 
the date on which a request is made for a transfer of funds in 
accordance with section 1017 of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such 
request.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification. Public information. Web posting.>>  Any 
notification required by this section shall be made available on the 
Bureau's public Web site.

    Sec. 747.  If, for fiscal year 2020, new budget authority provided 
in appropriations Acts exceeds the discretionary spending limit for any 
category set forth in section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 due to estimating differences with 
the Congressional Budget Office, an adjustment to the discretionary 
spending limit in such category for fiscal year 2020 shall be made by 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the amount of the 
excess but the total of all such adjustments shall not exceed 0.2 
percent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary spending limits for all 
categories for that fiscal year.
    Sec. 748. (a) <<NOTE: Locality pay. President. Determination. 5 USC 
5303 note.>> The adjustment in rates of basic pay for employees under 
the statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 2020 under 
section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an increase of 2.6 
percent, and the overall average percentage of the adjustments taking 
effect in such fiscal year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such title 5 
shall be an increase of 0.5 percent (with comparability payments to be 
determined and allocated among pay localities by the 
President). <<NOTE: Effective date.>> All adjustments under this 
subsection shall be effective as of the first day of the first 
applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2020.

    (b) Notwithstanding section 737, the adjustment in rates of basic 
pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 2020 
under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall be no 
less than the percentages in subsection (a) as employees in the same 
location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory 
pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and 5304a of title 5, United 
States Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations where there are no 
employees whose pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303, 5304, and 
5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate employees described in section 
5343(a)(5) of such title 5 shall be considered to be located in the pay 
locality designated as ``Rest of U.S.'' pursuant to section 5304 of such 
title 5 for purposes of this subsection.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2497]]

    (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations, which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 749. (a) <<NOTE: 5 USC 5303 note.>>  Notwithstanding the 
official rate adjusted under section 104 of title 3, United States Code, 
the rate payable to the Vice President during calendar year 2020 shall 
be the rate payable to the Vice President on December 31, 2019, by 
operation of section 749 of division D of Public Law 116-6.

    (b) Notwithstanding the official rate adjusted under section 5318 of 
title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, the payable 
rate during calendar year 2020 for an employee serving in an Executive 
Schedule position, or in a position for which the rate of pay is fixed 
by statute at an Executive Schedule rate, shall be the rate payable for 
the applicable Executive Schedule level on December 31, 2019, by 
operation of section 749 of division D of Public Law 116-6. Such an 
employee may not receive a pay rate increase during calendar year 2020, 
except as provided in subsection (i).
    (c) Notwithstanding section 401 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(Public Law 96-465) or any other provision of law, a chief of mission or 
ambassador at large is subject to subsection (b) in the same manner as 
other employees who are paid at an Executive Schedule rate.
    (d)(1) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This subsection applies to--
                    (A) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive 
                Service paid a rate of basic pay at or above the 
                official rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule; or
                    (B) a limited term appointee or limited emergency 
                appointee in the Senior Executive Service serving under 
                a political appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at 
                or above the official rate for level IV of the Executive 
                Schedule.
            (2) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, 
        United States Code, an employee described in paragraph (1) may 
        not receive a pay rate increase during calendar year 2020, 
        except as provided in subsection (i).

    (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any employee paid a 
rate of basic pay (including any locality- based payments under section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, or similar authority) at or above 
the official rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule who serves 
under a political appointment may not receive a pay rate increase during 
calendar year 2020, except as provided in subsection (i). This 
subsection does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay 
system or the Foreign Service pay system, to employees appointed under 
section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to employees in another 
pay system whose position would be classified at GS-15 or below if 
chapter 51 of title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
    (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent employees 
who do not serve under a political appointment from receiving pay 
increases as otherwise provided under applicable law.
    (g) This section does not apply to an individual who makes an 
election to retain Senior Executive Service basic pay under section 
3392(c) of title 5, United States Code, for such time as that election 
is in effect.
    (h) This section does not apply to an individual who makes an 
election to retain Senior Foreign Service pay entitlements under

[[Page 133 STAT. 2498]]

section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) 
for such time as that election is in effect.
    (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an employee in a 
covered position may receive a pay rate increase upon an authorized 
movement to a different covered position only if that new position has 
higher-level duties and a pre-established level or range of pay higher 
than the level or range for the position held immediately before the 
movement. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Any such increase must be based on 
the rates of pay and applicable limitations on payable rates of pay in 
effect on December 31, 2019, by operation of section 749 of division D 
of Public Law 116-6.

    (j) Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  any other provision 
of law, for an individual who is newly appointed to a covered position 
during the period of time subject to this section, the initial pay rate 
shall be based on the rates of pay and applicable limitations on payable 
rates of pay in effect on December 31, 2019, by operation of section 749 
of division D of Public Law 116-6.

    (k) If an <<NOTE: Applicability.>> employee affected by this section 
is subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar year 2020 
but ends in calendar year 2021, the bar on the employee's receipt of pay 
rate increases shall apply through the end of that pay period.

    (l) For the purpose of this section, the term ``covered position'' 
means a position occupied by an employee whose pay is restricted under 
this section.
    (m) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section takes effect on the first 
day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 
2020.

    Sec. 750.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any title other than title IV or VIII shall 
not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government.
    Sec. 802. <<NOTE: Lobbying.>>  None of the Federal funds provided in 
this Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes or 
implementation of any policy including boycott designed to support or 
defeat legislation pending before Congress or any State legislature.

    Sec. 803. <<NOTE: Advance approval.>> (a) None of the Federal funds 
provided under this Act to the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal 
and District government agencies, that remain available for obligation 
or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditures for an agency through a reprogramming of 
funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
        limited or increased under this Act;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2499]]

            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        program, project, or responsibility center for which funds have 
        been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
        deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in excess 
        of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
        specific program, project or responsibility center,

unless prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  The District of Columbia government is 
authorized to approve and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of 
local funds under this title through November 7, 2020.

    Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of the 
funds made available by this Act or by any other Act may be used to 
provide any officer or employee of the District of Columbia with an 
official vehicle unless the officer or employee uses the vehicle only in 
the performance of the officer's or employee's official 
duties. <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
``official duties'' does not include travel between the officer's or 
employee's residence and workplace, except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
        Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
        employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical 
        Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
        is on call 24 hours a day;
            (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
        Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of Columbia 
        Department of Corrections who resides in the District of 
        Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
            (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
        officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner 
        who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours 
        a day;
            (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
        Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or employee 
        of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency who 
        resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a 
        day;
            (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
            (7) <<NOTE: Voting rights.>>  the Chairman of the Council of 
        the District of Columbia.

    Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or any other officer 
or entity of the District government to provide assistance for any 
petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2500]]

    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia Attorney 
General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or 
from consulting with officials of the District government regarding such 
lawsuits.
    Sec. 807. <<NOTE: Needle distribution.>>   None of the Federal funds 
contained in this Act may be used to distribute any needle or syringe 
for the purpose of preventing the spread of blood borne pathogens in any 
location that has been determined by the local public health or local 
law enforcement authorities to be inappropriate for such distribution.

    Sec. 808. <<NOTE: Contraceptives. Conscience exception.>>   Nothing 
in this Act may be construed to prevent the Council or Mayor of the 
District of Columbia from addressing the issue of the provision of 
contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, but it is the intent 
of Congress that any legislation enacted on such issue should include a 
``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions for religious beliefs 
and moral convictions.

    Sec. 809. <<NOTE: Penalties. Drugs and drug abuse.>>  (a) None of 
the Federal funds contained in this Act may be used to enact or carry 
out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce 
penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any 
schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 
et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.

    (b) No funds available for obligation or expenditure by the District 
of Columbia government under any authority may be used to enact any law, 
rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties associated 
with the possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I substance 
under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any 
tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational purposes.
    Sec. 810. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>   No funds available for obligation or 
expenditure by the District of Columbia government under any authority 
shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the 
pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

    Sec. 811. <<NOTE: Deadline. Operating budget.>> (a) No later than 30 
calendar days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council of the 
District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating budget in 
the format of the budget that the District of Columbia government 
submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.42), for all agencies of the 
District of Columbia government for fiscal year 2020 that is in the 
total amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns all 
budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal services, 
respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Certification.>>  This section shall 
apply only to an agency for which the Chief Financial Officer for the 
District of Columbia certifies that a reallocation is required to 
address unanticipated changes in program requirements.

    Sec. 812. <<NOTE: Deadline. Operating budget.>>   No later than 30 
calendar days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council for the 
District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for 
the District of Columbia Public Schools that aligns schools budgets to 
actual enrollment. The revised appropriated funds budget shall be in the 
format of the budget that the District of Columbia government submitted

[[Page 133 STAT. 2501]]

pursuant to section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. 
Official Code, sec. 1-204.42).

    Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating funds 
may be transferred to the District of Columbia's enterprise and capital 
funds and such amounts, once transferred, shall retain appropriation 
authority consistent with the provisions of this Act.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to reprogram 
or transfer for operating expenses any local funds transferred or 
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal years from operating funds 
to capital funds, and such amounts, once transferred or reprogrammed, 
shall retain appropriation authority consistent with the provisions of 
this Act.
    (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or 
other obligations issued for capital projects.
    Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 815.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or under 
this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
available at the end of fiscal year 2020 from appropriations of Federal 
funds made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2020 in 
this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 2021, for each 
such account for the purposes authorized:  Provided, <<NOTE: Advance 
approval.>> That a request shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate for 
approval prior to the expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That 
these requests shall be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines 
outlined in section 803 of this Act.

    Sec. 816. (a)(1) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  During fiscal year 2021, 
during a period in which neither a District of Columbia continuing 
resolution or a regular District of Columbia appropriation bill is in 
effect, local funds are appropriated in the amount provided for any 
project or activity for which local funds are provided in the Act 
referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any modifications enacted by 
the District of Columbia as of the beginning of the period during which 
this subsection is in effect) at the rate set forth by such Act.

    (2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is the Act of the Council 
of the District of Columbia pursuant to which a proposed budget is 
approved for fiscal year 2021 which (subject to the requirements of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local portion of 
the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for fiscal 
year 2021 for purposes of section 446 of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (sec. 1-204.46, D.C. Official Code).
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
available--
            (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
        continuing resolution for fiscal year 2021 is in effect; or
            (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
        Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2021.

    (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under this Act and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by this 
Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2502]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  An appropriation made by subsection 
(a) shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for such 
project or activity during the portion of fiscal year 2021 for which 
this section applies to such project or activity.

    (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity during any 
period of fiscal year 2021 if any other provision of law (other than an 
authorization of appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or grants 
        authority for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall be 
        granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period.

    (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect obligations 
of the government of the District of Columbia mandated by other law.
    Sec. 817.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this title or in title IV shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this title or of title IV.
    This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2020''.

DIVISION D-- <<NOTE: Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
2020.>> DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020

                                 TITLE I

    DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONS, INTELLIGENCE, AND OVERSIGHT

            Office of the Secretary and Executive Management

                         operations and support

    For <<NOTE: Appointment. Compliance.>>  necessary expenses of the 
Office of the Secretary and for executive management for operations and 
support, $168,808,000; of which $10,000,000 shall be for an Ombudsman 
for Immigration Detention as established by section 106, of which 
$5,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021; and of which 
$500,000 shall be withheld from obligation until the Secretary appoints 
such Ombudsman for Immigration Detention and complies with the directive 
related to the Public Complaint and Feedback System Working Group in the 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $30,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                           federal assistance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary and Executive 
Management for Federal Assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and other activities, $10,000,000, which shall be 
transferred to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for targeted 
violence and terrorism prevention grants.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2503]]

                         Management Directorate

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Management Directorate for operations 
and support, $1,182,142,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall 
be for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting.>>  That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be withheld from 
obligation until the first report required by section 403 has been made 
available on a publicly accessible website.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Management Directorate for 
procurement, construction, and improvements, $381,298,000, of which 
$157,531,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022; and of 
which $223,767,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2024, to 
plan, acquire, design, construct, renovate, remediate, equip, furnish, 
improve infrastructure, and occupy buildings and facilities for the 
Department headquarters consolidation project.

                       federal protective service

    The revenues and collections of security fees credited to this 
account shall be available until expended for necessary expenses related 
to the protection of federally owned and leased buildings and for the 
operations of the Federal Protective Service.

           Intelligence, Analysis, and Operations Coordination

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis 
and the Office of Operations Coordination for operations and support, 
$284,141,000, of which $68,579,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,825 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses and not to exceed 
$2,000,000 is available for facility needs associated with secure space 
at fusion centers, including improvements to buildings.

                       Office of Inspector General

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for 
operations and support, $190,186,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$300,000 may be used for certain confidential operational expenses, 
including the payment of informants, to be expended at the direction of 
the Inspector General.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Reports. Grants. Contracts. Time period.>>  (a) 
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report not later than 
October 15, 2020, to the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland 
Security listing all grants and contracts awarded by any means other 
than full and open competition during fiscal years 2019 or 2020.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2504]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Review. Assessment.>>  The Inspector General shall 
review the report required by subsection (a) to assess departmental 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations and report the results 
of that review to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives not later than February 15, 2021.

    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: Deadline. Budget. Reports.>>   Not later than 30 
days after the last day of each month, the Chief Financial Officer of 
the Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives a monthly 
budget and staffing report that includes total obligations of the 
Department for that month and for the fiscal year at the appropriation 
and program, project, and activity levels, by the source year of the 
appropriation.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Contracts. Award fees.>> 103.  The Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall require that all contracts of the Department of 
Homeland Security that provide award fees link such fees to successful 
acquisition outcomes, which shall be specified in terms of cost, 
schedule, and performance.

    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Consultation. Notifications.>>   The Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives of any proposed transfers of funds available 
under section 9705(g)(4)(B) of title 31, United States Code, from the 
Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to any agency within the 
Department of Homeland Security:  Provided, That none of the funds 
identified for such a transfer may be obligated until the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives are 
notified of the proposed transfers.

    Sec. 105.  All official costs associated with the use of Government 
aircraft by Department of Homeland Security personnel to support 
official travel of the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary shall be paid 
from amounts made available for the Office of the Secretary.

           establishment of an immigration detention ombudsman

    Sec. 106. (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title IV of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 is amended by adding the following new section:
``SEC. 405. <<NOTE: 6 USC 205.>>  OMBUDSMAN FOR IMMIGRATION 
                        DETENTION.

    ``(a) In General.--Within the Department, there shall be a position 
of Immigration Detention Ombudsman (in this section referred to as the 
`Ombudsman'). The Ombudsman shall be independent of Department agencies 
and officers and shall report directly to the Secretary. The Ombudsman 
shall be a senior official with a background in civil rights 
enforcement, civil detention care and custody, and immigration law.
    ``(b) Functions.--The functions of the Ombudsman shall be to--
            ``(1) Establish and administer an independent, neutral, and 
        confidential process to receive, investigate, resolve, and 
        provide redress, including referral for investigation to the 
        Office of the Inspector General, referral to U.S. Citizenship 
        and Immigration Services for immigration relief, or any other 
        action determined appropriate, for cases in which Department 
        officers or other personnel, or contracted, subcontracted, or 
        cooperating entity personnel, are found to have engaged in 
        misconduct or violated the rights of individuals in immigration 
        detention;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2505]]

            ``(2) Establish an accessible and standardized process 
        regarding complaints against any officer or employee of U.S. 
        Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement, or any contracted, subcontracted, or cooperating 
        entity personnel, for violations of law, standards of 
        professional conduct, contract terms, or policy related to 
        immigration detention;
            ``(3) Conduct unannounced inspections of detention 
        facilities holding individuals in federal immigration custody, 
        including those owned or operated by units of State or local 
        government and privately-owned or operated facilities;
            ``(4) <<NOTE: Review. Recommenda- tions.>>  Review, examine, 
        and make recommendations to address concerns or violations of 
        contract terms identified in reviews, audits, investigations, or 
        detainee interviews regarding immigration detention facilities 
        and services;
            ``(5) Provide assistance to individuals affected by 
        potential misconduct, excessive force, or violations of law or 
        detention standards by Department of Homeland Security officers 
        or other personnel, or contracted, subcontracted, or cooperating 
        entity personnel; and
            ``(6) Ensure that the functions performed by the Ombudsman 
        are complementary to existing functions within the Department of 
        Homeland Security.

    ``(c) Access to Detention Facilities.--The Ombudsman or designated 
personnel of the Ombudsman, shall be provided unfettered access to any 
location within each such detention facility and shall be permitted 
confidential access to any detainee at the detainee's request and any 
departmental records concerning such detainee.
    ``(d) <<NOTE: Procedures. Deadlines.>>  Coordination With Department 
Components.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director of U.S. Immigration and 
        Customs Enforcement and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection shall each establish procedures to provide 
        formal responses to recommendations submitted to such officials 
        by the Ombudsman within 60 days of receiving such 
        recommendations.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Records.>>  Access to information.--The 
        Secretary shall establish procedures to provide the Ombudsman 
        access to all departmental records necessary to execute the 
        responsibilities of the Ombudsman under subsection (b) or (c) 
        not later than 60 days after a request from the Ombudsman for 
        such information.

    ``(e) Annual Report.--The Ombudsman shall prepare a report to 
Congress on an annual basis on its activities, findings, and 
recommendations.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 is amended by adding the following new item after 
``Sec. 404. Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee.'':

``Sec. 405. Ombudsman for Immigration Detention.''.

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Section 107 of the Department 
of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law 
115-141), related to visa overstay data, shall apply in fiscal year 
2020, except that the reference to ``this Act'' shall be treated as 
referring to this Act, and the reference to ``2017'' shall be treated as 
referring to ``2019''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2506]]

                                TITLE II

                SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for 
operations and support, including the transportation of unaccompanied 
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine support to Federal, State, 
local, and international agencies in the enforcement or administration 
of laws enforced by the Department of Homeland Security; at the 
discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, the provision of such 
support to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement 
and emergency humanitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of up to 
7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) police-type vehicles; the purchase, 
maintenance, or operation of marine vessels, aircraft, and unmanned 
aerial systems; and contracting with individuals for personal services 
abroad; $12,735,399,000; of which $3,274,000 shall be derived from the 
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative expenses related to the 
collection of the Harbor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section 9505(c)(3) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and 
notwithstanding section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of which $500,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2021; and of which such sums as become available in the 
Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of 
the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account; and of which 
$104,377,000 is for additional Office of Field Operations staffing:  
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed $150,000 
shall be available for payment for rental space in connection with 
preclearance operations:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$2,000,000 shall be for awards of compensation to informants, to be 
accounted for solely under the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland 
Security:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,000,000 may be 
transferred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for the maintenance and 
repair of roads on Native American reservations used by the U.S. Border 
Patrol: <<NOTE: Reports. Public information. Web posting.>>  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading for the 
Executive Leadership and Oversight program, project, and activity, 
$5,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation until the reports directed 
by the explanatory statement accompanying this Act concerning Custody 
and Transfer Metrics, the Migrant Protection Protocol program, and 
medical guidance have been made available on a publicly accessible 
website.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for 
procurement, construction, and improvements, including procurement of 
marine vessels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems, $1,904,468,000, 
of which $467,104,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022, 
and of which $1,437,364,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2024.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2507]]

                U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
for operations and support, including the purchase and lease of up to 
3,790 (2,350 for replacement only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted 
units; and maintenance, minor construction, and minor leasehold 
improvements at owned and leased facilities; $8,032,801,000; of which 
not less than $6,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
efforts to enforce laws against forced child labor; of which $53,696,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2021; of which not less than 
$1,500,000 is for paid apprenticeships for participants in the Human 
Exploitation Rescue Operative Child-Rescue Corps; of which not less than 
$15,000,000 shall be available for investigation of intellectual 
property rights violations, including operation of the National 
Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center; and of which not less 
than $4,429,033,000 shall be for enforcement, detention, and removal 
operations, including transportation of unaccompanied minor aliens:  
Provided, That not to exceed $11,475 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall be available until expended for conducting special 
operations under section 3131 of the Customs Enforcement Act of 1986 (19 
U.S.C. 2081):  Provided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be 
for awards of compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely 
under the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or 
reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs associated with the care, 
maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlawfully present in 
the United States:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports. Public 
information. Web posting.>>  That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $10,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation until the first 
report required by section 218 has been made available on a publicly 
accessible website.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
for procurement, construction, and improvements, $47,270,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022; of which not less than $36,970,000 
shall be available for facilities repair and maintenance projects.

                 Transportation Security Administration

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security Administration 
for operations and support, $7,680,565,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,650 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That 
security service fees authorized under section 44940 of title 49, United 
States Code, shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting 
collections and shall be available only for aviation security:  Provided 
further, That the sum appropriated under this heading from the general 
fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal

[[Page 133 STAT. 2508]]

year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $4,850,565,000.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security Administration 
for procurement, construction, and improvements, $110,100,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security Administration 
for research and development, $22,902,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                               Coast Guard

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard for operations and support 
including the Coast Guard Reserve; purchase or lease of not to exceed 25 
passenger motor vehicles, which shall be for replacement only; purchase 
or lease of small boats for contingent and emergent requirements (at a 
unit cost of not more than $700,000) and repairs and service-life 
replacements, not to exceed a total of $31,000,000; purchase, lease, or 
improvements of boats necessary for overseas deployments and activities; 
payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377 (42 U.S.C. 402 
note; 96 Stat. 1920); and recreation and welfare; $8,181,253,000, of 
which $530,000,000 shall be for defense-related activities, of which 
$190,000,000 is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985; of 
which $24,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund to carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil 
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)); of which $11,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2022; and of which $19,982,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2024, for environmental 
compliance and restoration:  Provided, That not to exceed $23,000 shall 
be for official reception and representation expenses.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard for procurement, 
construction, and improvements, including aids to navigation, shore 
facilities (including facilities at Department of Defense installations 
used by the Coast Guard), and vessels and aircraft, including equipment 
related thereto, $1,772,506,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2024; of which $20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil 
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)); and of which $32,350,000, 
shall be available to carry out the purposes of section 2946 of title 
14, United States Code, of which $26,376,833 shall be derived from the 
Coast Guard Housing Fund, established pursuant to such section.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2509]]

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard for research and 
development; and for maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation 
of facilities and equipment; $4,949,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022, of which $500,000 shall be derived from the Oil 
Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the purposes of section 
1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)):  
Provided, That there may be credited to and used for the purposes of 
this appropriation funds received from State and local governments, 
other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries for 
expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                               retired pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations otherwise 
chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plans, 
payment for career status bonuses, payment of continuation pay under 
section 356 of title 37, United States Code, concurrent receipts, 
combat-related special compensation, and payments for medical care of 
retired personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 of title 10, 
United States Code, $1,802,309,000, to remain available until expended.

                      United States Secret Service

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service for 
operations and support, including purchase of not to exceed 652 vehicles 
for police-type use for replacement only; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of motorcycles made in the United States; hire of 
aircraft; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; conduct of and participation in firearms 
matches; presentation of awards; conduct of behavioral research in 
support of protective intelligence and operations; payment in advance 
for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective 
functions; and payment, without regard to section 5702 of title 5, 
United States Code, of subsistence expenses of employees who are on 
protective missions, whether at or away from their duty stations; 
$2,336,401,000; of which $39,763,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021, and of which $6,000,000 shall be for a grant for 
activities related to investigations of missing and exploited children; 
and of which up to $15,000,000 may be for calendar year 2019 premium pay 
in excess of the annual equivalent of the limitation on the rate of pay 
contained in section 5547(a) of title 5, United States Code, pursuant to 
section 2 of the Overtime Pay for Protective Services Act of 2016 (5 
U.S.C. 5547 note), as amended by Public Law 115-383:  Provided, That not 
to exceed $19,125 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed $100,000 shall be to 
provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement 
organizations in criminal

[[Page 133 STAT. 2510]]

investigations within the jurisdiction of the United States Secret 
Service.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service for 
procurement, construction, and improvements, $66,989,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2022.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service for 
research and development, $12,455,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Section 201 of the Department 
of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law 
115-141), related to overtime compensation limitations, shall apply with 
respect to funds made available in this Act in the same manner as such 
section applied to funds made available in that Act, except that 
``fiscal year 2020'' shall be substituted for ``fiscal year 2018''.

    Sec. 202.  Funding made available under the headings ``U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection--Operations and Support'' and ``U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection--Procurement, Construction, and Improvements'' shall 
be available for customs expenses when necessary to maintain operations 
and prevent adverse personnel actions in Puerto Rico in addition to 
funding provided by section 740 of title 48, United States Code.
    Sec. 203.  As authorized by section 601(b) of the United States-
Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 112-
42), fees collected from passengers arriving from Canada, Mexico, or an 
adjacent island pursuant to section 13031(a)(5) of the Consolidated 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(a)(5)) shall be 
available until expended.
    Sec. 204.  For an additional amount for ``U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Operations and Support'', $31,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected and credited to this 
appropriation in fiscal year 2020 from amounts authorized to be 
collected by section 286(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1356(i)), section 10412 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8311), and section 817 of the Trade Facilitation 
and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-25), or other such 
authorizing language:  Provided, That to the extent that amounts 
realized from such collections exceed $31,000,000, those amounts in 
excess of $31,000,000 shall be credited to this appropriation, to remain 
available until expended.
    Sec. 205.  None of the funds made available in this Act for U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection may be used to prevent an individual not 
in the business of importing a prescription drug (within the meaning of 
section 801(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) from 
importing a prescription drug from Canada that complies with the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:  Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability. Time 
period.>>  That this section shall apply only to individuals 
transporting on their person a personal-use quantity of the prescription

[[Page 133 STAT. 2511]]

drug, not to exceed a 90-day supply:  Provided further, That the 
prescription drug may not be--
            (1) a controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the 
        Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); or
            (2) a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262).

    Sec. 206. <<NOTE: Consultation.>>   Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds provided in this or any other Act 
shall be used to approve a waiver of the navigation and vessel-
inspection laws pursuant to section 501(b) of title 46, United States 
Code, for the transportation of crude oil distributed from and to the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve until the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
after consultation with the Secretaries of the Departments of Energy and 
Transportation and representatives from the United States flag maritime 
industry, takes adequate measures to ensure the use of United States 
flag <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline. Waivers.>>  vessels:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives within 
2 business days of any request for waivers of navigation and vessel-
inspection laws pursuant to section 501(b) of title 46, United States 
Code, with respect to such transportation, and the disposition of such 
requests.

    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> (a) Beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall not--
            (1) establish, collect, or otherwise impose any new border 
        crossing fee on individuals crossing the Southern border or the 
        Northern border at a land port of entry; or
            (2) conduct any study relating to the imposition of a border 
        crossing fee.

    (b) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  In this section, the term ``border 
crossing fee'' means a fee that every pedestrian, cyclist, and driver 
and passenger of a private motor vehicle is required to pay for the 
privilege of crossing the Southern border or the Northern border at a 
land port of entry.

    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>   Not later than 90 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall submit an expenditure plan for any amounts made available 
for ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'' in this Act and prior Acts to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives:  
Provided, That no such amounts may be obligated prior to the submission 
of such plan.

    Sec. 209. (a) Of the total amount made available under ``U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection--Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $1,904,468,000 shall be available only as follows:
            (1) $1,375,000,000 for the construction of barrier system 
        along the southwest border;
            (2) $221,912,000 for the acquisition and deployment of 
        border security technologies and trade and travel assets and 
        infrastructure;
            (3) $62,364,000 for facility construction and improvements;
            (4) $199,519,000 for integrated operations assets and 
        infrastructure; and
            (5) $45,673,000 for mission support and infrastructure.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2512]]

    (b) The amount designated in subsection (a)(1) shall only be 
available for barrier systems that--
            (1) use--
                    (A) operationally effective designs deployed as of 
                the date of enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations 
                Act, 2017 (Public Law 115-31), such as currently 
                deployed steel bollard designs, that prioritize agent 
                safety; or
                    (B) operationally effective adaptations of such 
                designs that help mitigate community or environmental 
                impacts of barrier system construction, including 
                adaptations based on consultation with jurisdictions 
                within which barrier system will be constructed; and
            (2) are constructed in the highest priority locations as 
        identified in the Border Security Improvement Plan.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  The Chief of the U.S. Border Patrol 
shall--
            (1) <<NOTE: Plan.>>  provide a plan to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        for the use of the amounts provided in subsection (a)(1) within 
        30 days of the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  notify such Committees of any 
        amendment to the highest priority locations identified for the 
        use of the amount provided in subsection (a)(1) within 5 days of 
        such amendment.

    (d) <<NOTE: Consultation. Time period.>>  Consultation with a 
jurisdiction under subsection (b)(2) shall not exceed 90 calendar days 
after such jurisdiction has been notified that U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection is entering into such consultation, unless an extension of 
time is agreed to by such agency and such jurisdiction.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline. Plan. Evaluation.>>  Not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the 
Comptroller General of the United States an updated risk-based plan for 
improving security along the borders of the United States that includes 
the elements required under subsection (a) of section 231 of division F 
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141), which 
shall be evaluated in accordance with subsection (b) of such section.

    Sec. 210.  Federal funds may not be made available for the 
construction of fencing--
            (1) within the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge;
            (2) within the Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park;
            (3) within La Lomita Historical park;
            (4) within the National Butterfly Center;
            (5) within or east of the Vista del Mar Ranch tract of the 
        Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge; or
            (6) within historic cemeteries.

    Sec. 211.  Funds made available in this Act may be used to alter 
operations within the National Targeting Center of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection:  Provided, That none of the funds provided by this 
Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the components funded by this Act, may be used to 
reduce anticipated or planned vetting operations at existing locations 
unless specifically authorized by a statute enacted after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2513]]

    Sec. 212. (a) Of the amounts made available by this Act for ``U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection--Operations and Support''--
    (1) $173,000,000 is for humanitarian care;
    (2) $30,000,000 is to address health, life, and safety issues at 
existing Border Patrol facilities, including construction, and for 
improved video recording capabilities;  Provided, That such amounts are 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (b) Of the amounts made available by this Act for ``U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection--Procurement, Construction, and Improvements'', 
$30,000,000 is for the development of an agency-wide electronic health 
records system;  Provided, That such amounts are designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    (c) <<NOTE: Certification. Compliance.>>  The amounts in subsection 
(b) may not be obligated until the Department of Homeland Security Chief 
Medical Officer provides written certification of compliance with the 
requirements described in the explanatory statement accompanying this 
Act concerning electronic health records to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 213.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and condition 
of section 503(d) of this Act, the Secretary may reprogram within and 
transfer funds to ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Operations 
and Support'' as necessary to ensure the detention of aliens prioritized 
for removal.
    Sec. 214. <<NOTE: Determination.>>   None of the funds provided 
under the heading ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Operations 
and Support'' may be used to continue a delegation of law enforcement 
authority authorized under section 287(g) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) if the Department of Homeland 
Security Inspector General determines that the terms of the agreement 
governing the delegation of authority have been materially violated.

    Sec. 215. <<NOTE: Contracts. 6 USC 211 note.>> (a) None of the funds 
provided under the heading ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--
Operations and Support'' may be used to continue any contract for the 
provision of detention services if the two most recent overall 
performance evaluations received by the contracted facility are less 
than ``adequate'' or the equivalent median score in any subsequent 
performance evaluation system.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Deadline.>>  Beginning not later than 
January 1, 2021, the performance evaluations referenced in subsection 
(a) shall be conducted by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
Office of Professional Responsibility.

    Sec. 216. (a) <<NOTE: Aliens.>>  None of the funds provided by this 
Act or any other Act, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of 
the United States derived by the collection of fees available to the 
components funded by this Act, may be used by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to place in detention, remove, refer for a decision whether to 
initiate removal proceedings, or initiate removal proceedings against a 
sponsor, potential sponsor, or member of a household of a sponsor or 
potential sponsor of an unaccompanied alien child (as defined in section 
462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))) based on 
information shared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2514]]

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if a background check of a 
sponsor, potential sponsor, or member of a household of a sponsor or 
potential sponsor reveals--
            (1) a felony conviction or pending felony charge that 
        relates to--
                    (A) an aggravated felony (as defined in section 
                101(a)(43) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)));
                    (B) child abuse;
                    (C) sexual violence or abuse; or
                    (D) child pornography;
            (2) an association with any business that employs a minor 
        who--
                    (A) is unrelated to the sponsor, potential sponsor, 
                or member of a household of a sponsor or potential 
                sponsor; and
                    (B) is--
                          (i) not paid a legal wage; or
                          (ii) unable to attend school due to the 
                      employment; or
            (3) an association with the organization or implementation 
        of prostitution.

    Sec. 217. <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting. Reports.>>   Not 
later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, and make available on a publicly accessible website, a 
report describing agreements pursuant to section 287(g) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) which shall include 
--
            (1) detailed information relating to the community outreach 
        activities of each participating jurisdiction pursuant to such 
        agreement, including the membership and activities of any 
        community-based steering committee established by such 
        jurisdiction;
            (2) the number of individuals placed into removal 
        proceedings pursuant to each such agreement;
            (3) <<NOTE: Data.>>  data on the performance of the officers 
        or employees of a State or political subdivision thereof under 
        each such agreement, including the nationality and level of 
        criminality of the individuals described in paragraph (2); and
            (4) information relating to any future plans to increase the 
        number of such agreements or expand the scope of such agreements 
        through the introduction of new operations pursuant to such 
        section.

    Sec. 218. <<NOTE: Reports. Public information. Web posting. Time 
periods. Aliens. 8 USC 1378a.>>  Not later than 7 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act and updated semimonthly thereafter, the Director 
of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall make available a 
report, on a publicly accessible website in a downloadable, searchable, 
and sortable format, with not less than the previous twelve months of 
semimonthly data as of the last date of each such reporting period; on--
            (1) aliens detained by such agency, including data 
        disaggregated by single adults and members of family units on--
                    (A) the average fiscal year-to-date daily 
                populations of aliens detained;
                    (B) the daily count of aliens detained;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2515]]

                    (C) the fiscal year-to-date total for book-ins;
                    (D) the average lengths of stay, including average 
                post-determination length of stay in the case of 
                detainees described in subparagraph (F);
                    (E) the number transferred to the custody of U.S. 
                Immigration and Customs Enforcement by U.S. Customs and 
                Border Protection after being--
                          (i) deemed inadmissible at a port of entry or 
                      after being apprehended within 14 days of entering 
                      the United States; or
                          (ii) arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs 
                      Enforcement;
                    (F) the number determined to have a credible or 
                reasonable fear of--
                          (i) persecution, as defined in section 
                      235(b)(1)(B)(v) of the Immigration and Nationality 
                      Act; or
                          (ii) torture, as defined in section 208.30 of 
                      title 8, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect 
                      on January 1, 2018); and
                    (G) the number who have been issued a Notice to 
                Appear pursuant to section 239 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act, disaggregated by single adults and 
                members of family units;
            (2) the total number of enrollees in the Alternatives to 
        Detention program and the average length of participation, 
        disaggregated by--
                    (A) single adults and family heads of household;
                    (B) participants in the family case management 
                program;
                    (C) level of supervision; and
                    (D) location of supervision, by field office;
            (3) for each facility where aliens are detained by U.S. 
        Immigration and Customs Enforcement--
                    (A) the address;
                    (B) the field offices that assign detainees to the 
                facility;
                    (C) the detailed facility type, as defined in the 
                integrated decision support system;
                    (D) the gender of aliens detained;
                    (E) the average daily population of detainees within 
                each detainee classification level, as defined in the 
                integrated decision support system;
                    (F) the average daily population of individuals 
                within each threat level, as defined in the integrated 
                decision support system;
                    (G) the average daily population within each 
                criminality category, as defined in the integrated 
                decision support system, disaggregated by gender;
                    (H) the average length of stay;
                    (I) the average daily population of individuals 
                whose detention is classified as mandatory;
                    (J) the performance standards to which the facility 
                is held;
                    (K) the date of the two most recent inspections, the 
                entity that performed each inspection, and a detailed 
                summary of the results of such inspections; and
                    (L) the guaranteed minimum detention capacity, if 
                applicable; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 2516]]

            (4) the total number of releases from custody, by condition 
        of release, and total number of removals, disaggregated by adult 
        facilities and family facilities.

    Sec. 219.  Members of the United States House of Representatives and 
the United States Senate, including the leadership; the heads of Federal 
agencies and commissions, including the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of the Department of 
Homeland Security; the United States Attorney General, Deputy Attorney 
General, Assistant Attorneys General, and the United States Attorneys; 
and senior members of the Executive Office of the President, including 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall not be exempt 
from Federal passenger and baggage screening.
    Sec. 220. <<NOTE: Explosives detection systems.>>   Any award by the 
Transportation Security Administration to deploy explosives detection 
systems shall be based on risk, the airport's current reliance on other 
screening solutions, lobby congestion resulting in increased security 
concerns, high injury rates, airport readiness, and increased cost 
effectiveness.

    Sec. 221. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   Notwithstanding section 44923 of 
title 49, United States Code, for fiscal year 2020, any funds in the 
Aviation Security Capital Fund established by section 44923(h) of title 
49, United States Code, may be used for the procurement and installation 
of explosives detection systems or for the issuance of other transaction 
agreements for the purpose of funding projects described in section 
44923(a) of such title.

    Sec. 222.  None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used by the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration to implement, administer, or enforce, in abrogation of 
the responsibility described in section 44903(n)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, any requirement that airport operators provide airport-
financed staffing to monitor exit points from the sterile area of any 
airport at which the Transportation Security Administration provided 
such monitoring as of December 1, 2013.
    Sec. 223. <<NOTE: Reports. Plans.>>   Not later than 30 days after 
the submission of the President's budget proposal, the Administrator of 
the Transportation Security Administration shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations and Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Homeland Security 
in the House of Representatives a single report that fulfills the 
following requirements:
            (1) a Capital Investment Plan (CIP) that includes a plan for 
        continuous and sustained capital investment in new, and the 
        replacement of aged, transportation security equipment;
            (2) the 5-year technology investment plan as required by 
        section 1611 of title XVI of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
        as amended by section 3 of the Transportation Security 
        Acquisition Reform Act (Public Law 113-245); and
            (3) the Advanced Integrated Passenger Screening Technologies 
        report as required by the Senate Report accompanying the 
        Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2019 (Senate 
        Report 115-283).

    Sec. 224.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Coast Guard--Operations and Support'' shall be for expenses 
incurred for recreational vessels under section 12114 of title 46, 
United States Code, except to the extent fees are collected from owners 
of yachts and credited to the appropriation made available by this Act 
under the heading ``Coast Guard--Operations

[[Page 133 STAT. 2517]]

and Support'':  Provided, That to the extent such fees are insufficient 
to pay expenses of recreational vessel documentation under such section 
12114, and there is a backlog of recreational vessel applications, 
personnel performing non-recreational vessel documentation functions 
under subchapter II of chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, may 
perform documentation under section 12114.
    Sec. 225.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and condition 
of section 503(d) of this Act, after June 30, up to $10,000,000 may be 
reprogrammed to or from the Military Pay and Allowances funding category 
within ``Coast Guard--Operations and Support'' in accordance with 
subsection (a) of section 503 of this Act.
    Sec. 226. <<NOTE: Investment plan.>>   Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a future-years capital investment plan as described in 
the second proviso under the heading ``Coast Guard--Acquisition, 
Construction, and Improvements'' in the Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 114-4), which shall be subject to 
the requirements in the third and fourth provisos under such heading.

    Sec. 227.  Funds made available for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism under the heading ``Coast Guard--Operations and 
Support'' may be allocated by program, project, and activity, 
notwithstanding section 503 of this Act.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to reduce the 
Coast Guard's Operations Systems Center mission or its government-
employed or contract staff levels.
    Sec. 229.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
conduct, or to implement the results of, a competition under Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-76 for activities performed with 
respect to the Coast Guard National Vessel Documentation Center.
    Sec. 230.  Funds made available in this Act may be used to alter 
operations within the Civil Engineering Program of the Coast Guard 
nationwide, including civil engineering units, facilities design and 
construction centers, maintenance and logistics commands, and the Coast 
Guard Academy, except that none of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used to reduce operations within any civil engineering unit unless 
specifically authorized by a statute enacted after the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    Sec. 231. (a) <<NOTE: 10 USC 1475 note.>>  Any discretionary amounts 
appropriated in this Act in the current fiscal year and any fiscal year 
thereafter may be obligated for death gratuity payments, as authorized 
in subchapter II of chapter 75 of title 10, United States Code.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Subsection (a) shall only apply if an 
appropriation for ``Coast Guard--Operations and Support'' is unavailable 
for obligation for such payments.

    (c) Such obligations shall subsequently be recorded against 
appropriations that become available for ``Coast Guard--Operations and 
Support''.
    Sec. 232. <<NOTE: Effective date. Time periods. 14 USC 2946 note.>>  
 Beginning in fiscal year 2021 and for each fiscal year thereafter, 
amounts credited to the Coast Guard Housing Fund pursuant to paragraphs 
(3) through (5) of subsection (b) of section 2946 of title 14, United 
States Code, shall be classified as discretionary offsetting receipts.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2518]]

    Sec. 233.  The United States Secret Service is authorized to 
obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from executive 
agencies, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, for 
personnel receiving training sponsored by the James J. Rowley Training 
Center, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year 
shall not exceed total budgetary resources available under the heading 
``United States Secret Service--Operations and Support'' at the end of 
the fiscal year.
    Sec. 234.  None of the funds made available to the United States 
Secret Service by this Act or by previous appropriations Acts may be 
made available for the protection of the head of a Federal agency other 
than the Secretary of Homeland Security:  Provided, That the Director of 
the United States Secret Service may enter into agreements to provide 
such protection on a fully reimbursable basis.
    Sec. 235.  For purposes of section 503(a)(3) of this Act, up to 
$15,000,000 may be reprogrammed within ``United States Secret Service--
Operations and Support''.
    Sec. 236. <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>   Funding made 
available in this Act for ``United States Secret Service--Operations and 
Support'' is available for travel of United States Secret Service 
employees on protective missions without regard to the limitations on 
such expenditures in this or any other Act if the Director of the United 
States Secret Service or a designee notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 10 or more 
days in advance, or as early as practicable, prior to such expenditures.

                                TITLE III

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

            Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency for operations and support, $1,566,229,000, of which 
$31,793,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency for procurement, construction, and improvements, 
$434,962,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency for research and development, $14,431,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2519]]

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
for operations and support, $1,102,199,000:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
for procurement, construction, and improvements, $133,363,000, of which 
$74,167,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022, and of 
which $59,196,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2024.

                           federal assistance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency for 
Federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
and other activities, $3,178,467,000, which shall be allocated as 
follows:
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination. Terrorism.>>  $560,000,000 for 
        the State Homeland Security Grant Program under section 2004 of 
        the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 605), of which 
        $90,000,000 shall be for Operation Stonegarden, $15,000,000 
        shall be for Tribal Homeland Security Grants under section 2005 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 606), and 
        $40,000,000 shall be for organizations (as described under 
        section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
        exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such code) determined by 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security to be at high risk of a 
        terrorist attack:  Provided, <<NOTE: Puerto Rico.>> That 
        notwithstanding subsection (c)(4) of such section 2004, for 
        fiscal year 2020, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall make 
        available to local and tribal governments amounts provided to 
        the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under this paragraph in 
        accordance with subsection (c)(1) of such section 2004.
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination. Terrorism.>>  $665,000,000 for 
        the Urban Area Security Initiative under section 2003 of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 604), of which 
        $50,000,000 shall be for organizations (as described under 
        section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
        exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such code) determined by 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security to be at high risk of a 
        terrorist attack.
            (3) $100,000,000 for Public Transportation Security 
        Assistance, Railroad Security Assistance, and Over-the-Road Bus 
        Security Assistance under sections 1406, 1513, and 1532 of the 
        Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 
        (6 U.S.C. 1135, 1163, and 1182), of which $10,000,000 shall be 
        for Amtrak security and $2,000,000 shall be for Over-the-Road 
        Bus Security:  Provided, That such public transportation 
        security assistance shall be provided directly to public 
        transportation agencies.
            (4) $100,000,000 for Port Security Grants in accordance with 
        section 70107 of title 46, United States Code.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2520]]

            (5) $710,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2021, of which $355,000,000 shall be for Assistance to 
        Firefighter Grants and $355,000,000 shall be for Staffing for 
        Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grants under sections 33 
        and 34 respectively of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control 
        Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2229 and 2229a).
            (6) $355,000,000 for emergency management performance grants 
        under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 
        et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121), the Earthquake Hazards 
        Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701), section 762 of title 6, 
        United States Code, and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 
        U.S.C. App.).
            (7) $263,000,000 for necessary expenses for Flood Hazard 
        Mapping and Risk Analysis, in addition to and to supplement any 
        other sums appropriated under the National Flood Insurance Fund, 
        and such additional sums as may be provided by States or other 
        political subdivisions for cost-shared mapping activities under 
        section 1360(f)(2) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 
        (42 U.S.C. 4101(f)(2)), to remain available until expended.
            (8) $10,000,000 for Regional Catastrophic Preparedness 
        Grants.
            (9) $10,000,000 for Rehabilitation of High Hazard Potential 
        Dams under section 8A of the National Dam Safety Program Act (33 
        U.S.C. 467f-2).
            (10) $125,000,000 for the emergency food and shelter program 
        under title III of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 11331), to remain available until expended:  
        Provided, That not to exceed 3.5 percent shall be for total 
        administrative costs.
            (11) $280,467,000 to sustain current operations for 
        training, exercises, technical assistance, and other programs.

                          disaster relief fund

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$17,863,259,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the amount provided under this heading, $17,352,112,000 shall be for 
major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) and is 
designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      national flood insurance fund

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 
2012 (Public Law 112-141, 126 Stat. 916), and the Homeowner Flood 
Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89; 128 Stat. 1020), 
$206,782,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, which shall 
be derived from offsetting amounts collected under section 1308(d) of 
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)); of which 
$14,005,000 shall be available for mission support associated with flood 
management;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2521]]

and of which $192,777,000 shall be available for flood plain management 
and flood mapping:  Provided, That any additional fees collected 
pursuant to section 1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 4015(d)) shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
account, to be available for flood plain management and flood mapping:  
Provided further, That in fiscal year 2020, no funds shall be available 
from the National Flood Insurance Fund under section 1310 of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017) in excess of--
            (1) $192,439,000 for operating expenses and salaries and 
        expenses associated with flood insurance operations;
            (2) $1,151,000,000 for commissions and taxes of agents;
            (3) such sums as are necessary for interest on Treasury 
        borrowings; and
            (4) $175,000,000, which shall remain available until 
        expended, for flood mitigation actions and for flood mitigation 
        assistance under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance 
        Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104c), notwithstanding sections 1366(e) 
        and 1310(a)(7) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4104c(e), 4017):

  Provided further, That the amounts collected under section 102 of the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a) and section 
1366(e) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4104c(e)), shall be deposited in the National Flood Insurance Fund to 
supplement other amounts specified as available for section 1366 of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), 
section 1366(e) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and 
paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1367(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
4012a(f)(8), 4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)-(3)):  Provided further, That total 
administrative costs shall not exceed 4 percent of the total 
appropriation:  Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 is available to 
carry out section 24 of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act 
of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033).

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301.  Notwithstanding section 2008(a)(12) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609(a)(12)) or any other provision of 
law, not more than 5 percent of the amount of a grant made available in 
paragraphs (1) through (4) under ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--
Federal Assistance'', may be used by the grantee for expenses directly 
related to administration of the grant.
    Sec. 302. <<NOTE: Grants. Deadlines.>>   Applications for grants 
under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--Federal 
Assistance'', for paragraphs (1) through (4), shall be made available to 
eligible applicants not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, eligible applicants shall submit applications not later 
than 80 days after the grant announcement, and the Administrator of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency shall act within 65 days after the 
receipt of an application.

    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: Grants. Briefing. Time period. Public 
information.>>   Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
Agency--Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) through 
(4), (8), and (9), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency shall brief the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives 5 full business days in advance of 
announcing publicly the intention of making an award.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2522]]

    Sec. 304.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--
Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) and (2), the 
installation of communications towers is not considered construction of 
a building or other physical facility.
    Sec. 305. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   The reporting requirements in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
Agency--Disaster Relief Fund'' in the Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 114-4) shall be applied in fiscal 
year 2020 with respect to budget year 2021 and current fiscal year 2020, 
respectively--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by substituting ``fiscal year 2021'' 
        for ``fiscal year 2016''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``business'' after 
        ``fifth''.

    Sec. 306. <<NOTE: Grants. Waivers. Extension.>>  (a) In making 
grants under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency--Federal 
Assistance'', for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
grants, the Secretary may grant waivers from the requirements in 
subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (a)(1)(E), (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(4) 
of section 34 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 
U.S.C. 2229a).

    (b) For grants made under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
Agency--Firefighter Assistance Grants'' in division F of Public Law 114-
113, the Secretary may extend the period of performance described in 
subsection (a)(1)(B) of such section 34 for up to one additional year.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  For purposes of subsection (b)--
            (1) subsections (a)(1)(E)(iii) and (c)(4)(C) of such section 
        34 shall also apply to such additional year of such period of 
        performance; and
            (2) the authority provided shall only apply to any such 
        grant award that remains open on the date of enactment of this 
        Act.

    Sec. 307.  The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2020, 
as authorized in title III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (42 U.S.C. 5196e), shall not be less than 100 percent of the 
amounts anticipated by the Department of Homeland Security to be 
necessary for its Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program for the 
next fiscal year:  Provided, That the methodology for assessment and 
collection of fees shall be fair and equitable and shall reflect costs 
of providing such services, including administrative costs of collecting 
such fees:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  That such fees 
shall be deposited in a Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program 
account as offsetting collections and will become available for 
authorized purposes on October 1, 2020, and remain available until 
expended.

                                TITLE IV

              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING, AND SERVICES

                U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
for operations and support of the E-Verify Program, $122,395,000.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2523]]

                           federal assistance

    For necessary expenses of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
for Federal assistance for the Citizenship and Integration Grant 
Program, $10,000,000.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Centers for operations and support, including the purchase of not to 
exceed 117 vehicles for police-type use and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
States Code, $292,997,000, of which $54,283,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,180 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Centers for procurement, construction, and improvements, $58,173,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2024.

                   Science and Technology Directorate

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Science and Technology Directorate for 
operations and support, including the purchase or lease of not to exceed 
5 vehicles, $314,864,000, of which $171,232,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed $10,000 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Science and Technology Directorate for 
research and development, $422,411,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022.

              Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office for operations and support, $179,467,000:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office for procurement, construction, and improvements, $118,988,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2022.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2524]]

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office for research and development, $69,181,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2022.

                           federal assistance

    For necessary expenses of the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office for Federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and other activities, $64,663,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 401.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
otherwise made available to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
may be used to acquire, operate, equip, and dispose of up to 5 vehicles, 
for replacement only, for areas where the Administrator of General 
Services does not provide vehicles for lease:  Provided, That the 
Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services may authorize 
employees who are assigned to those areas to use such vehicles to travel 
between the employees' residences and places of employment.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
process or approve a competition under Office of Management and Budget 
Circular A-76 for services provided by employees (including employees 
serving on a temporary or term basis) of U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland Security who are 
known as Immigration Information Officers, Immigration Service Analysts, 
Contact Representatives, Investigative Assistants, or Immigration 
Services Officers.
    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Public information. Web posting. Reports. Time 
period. Data. 8 USC 1377a.>>  (a) Not later than 30 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act and updated semimonthly thereafter, the 
Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services shall make 
available, on a publicly accessible website in a downloadable, 
searchable, and sortable format, a report containing not less than the 
previous twelve months of semimonthly data on--
            (1) the number of aliens determined to have a credible or 
        reasonable fear of--
                    (A) persecution, as defined in section 
                235(b)(1)(B)(v) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; 
                or
                    (B) torture, as defined in section 208.30 of title 
                8, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 
                1, 2018);
            (2) the total number of cases received by U.S. Citizenship 
        and Immigration Services to adjudicate credible or reasonable 
        fear claims, as described in paragraph (1), and the total number 
        of cases closed.

    (b) Such report shall also disaggregate the data described in 
subsection (a) with respect to the following subsets--
            (1) claims submitted by aliens detained at a U.S. 
        Immigration and Customs Enforcement family residential center;
            (2) claims submitted by aliens organized by each subdivision 
        of legal or administrative authority under which claims are 
        reviewed; and
            (3) the job series of the personnel reviewing the claims.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2525]]

    Sec. 404.  The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Centers is authorized to distribute funds to Federal law enforcement 
agencies for expenses incurred participating in training accreditation.
    Sec. 405.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation Board, 
including representatives from the Federal law enforcement community and 
non-Federal accreditation experts involved in law enforcement training, 
shall lead the Federal law enforcement training accreditation process to 
continue the implementation of measuring and assessing the quality and 
effectiveness of Federal law enforcement training programs, facilities, 
and instructors.
    Sec. 406.  The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Centers may accept transfers to the account established by section 
407(a) of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 
(Public Law 115-141) from Government agencies requesting the 
construction of special use facilities, as authorized by the Economy Act 
(31 U.S.C. 1535(b)):  Provided, That the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Centers maintain administrative control and ownership upon 
completion of such facilities.
    Sec. 407.  The functions of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Centers instructor staff shall be classified as inherently governmental 
for purposes of the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note).

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                    (including rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  Subject to the requirements of section 503 of this Act, 
the unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for activities 
in this Act may be transferred to appropriation accounts for such 
activities established pursuant to this Act, may be merged with funds in 
the applicable established accounts, and thereafter may be accounted for 
as one fund for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 503. <<NOTE: Notifications. Time periods.>>  (a) None of the 
funds provided by this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the components in or transferred to the Department of Homeland Security 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, 
or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States 
derived by the collection of fees available to the components funded by 
this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates or eliminates a program, project, or activity, 
        or increases funds for any program, project, or activity for 
        which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress;
            (2) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  contracts out any function or 
        activity presently performed by Federal employees or any new 
        function or activity proposed to be performed by Federal 
        employees in the President's budget proposal for fiscal year 
        2020 for the Department of Homeland Security;

[[Page 133 STAT. 2526]]

            (3) augments funding for existing programs, projects, or 
        activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is 
        less;
            (4) reduces funding for any program, project, or activity, 
        or numbers of personnel, by 10 percent or more; or
            (5) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel that would result in a change in funding levels for 
        programs, projects, or activities as approved by the Congress.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of such reprogramming.
    (c) Up to 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Department of Homeland Security by this Act 
or provided by previous appropriations Acts may be transferred between 
such appropriations if the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives are notified at least 30 days in 
advance of such transfer, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
such transfer.
    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and 
(c), no funds shall be reprogrammed within or transferred between 
appropriations based upon an initial notification provided after June 
30, except in extraordinary circumstances that imminently threaten the 
safety of human life or the protection of property.

    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  The notification thresholds and 
procedures set forth in subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) shall apply 
to any use of deobligated balances of funds provided in previous 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Acts that remain 
available for obligation in the current year.

    (f) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the Secretary of Homeland 
Security may transfer to the fund established by 8 U.S.C. 1101 note, up 
to $20,000,000 from appropriations available to the Department of 
Homeland Security:  Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives at least 5 days in advance of such transfer.
    Sec. 504. <<NOTE: Applicability. 31 USC 501 note.>>   Section 504 of 
the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2017 (division F 
of Public Law 115-31), related to the operations of a working capital 
fund, shall apply with respect to funds made available in this Act in 
the same manner as such section applied to funds made available in that 
Act:  Provided, That funds from such working capital fund may be 
obligated and expended in anticipation of reimbursements from components 
of the Department of Homeland Security.

    Sec. 505. <<NOTE: Time period.>>   Except as otherwise specifically 
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2020, as recorded in the 
financial records at the time of a reprogramming notification, but not 
later than June 30, 2021, from appropriations for ``Operations and 
Support'' for fiscal year 2020 in this Act shall remain available 
through September 30, 2021, in the account and for the purposes for 
which the appropriations were provided:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That prior to the obligation of such 
funds, a notification shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in 
accordance with section 503 of this Act.

    Sec. 506.  Funds made available by this Act for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947

[[Page 133 STAT. 2527]]

(50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2020 until the enactment of an Act 
authorizing intelligence activities for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 507. <<NOTE: Notification. Time 
period. Grants. Contracts. Public information.>>  (a) The Secretary of 
Homeland Security, or the designee of the Secretary, shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives at least 3 full business days in advance of--
            (1) making or awarding a grant allocation, grant, contract, 
        other transaction agreement, or task or delivery order on a 
        Department of Homeland Security multiple award contract, or to 
        issue a letter of intent totaling in excess of $1,000,000;
            (2) awarding a task or delivery order requiring an 
        obligation of funds in an amount greater than $10,000,000 from 
        multi-year Department of Homeland Security funds;
            (3) making a sole-source grant award; or
            (4) announcing publicly the intention to make or award items 
        under paragraph (1), (2), or (3), including a contract covered 
        by the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

    (b) <<NOTE: Determination. Deadline.>>  If the Secretary of Homeland 
Security determines that compliance with this section would pose a 
substantial risk to human life, health, or safety, an award may be made 
without notification, and the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later 
than 5 full business days after such an award is made or letter issued.

    (c) A notification under this section--
            (1) may not involve funds that are not available for 
        obligation; and
            (2) shall include the amount of the award; the fiscal year 
        for which the funds for the award were appropriated; the type of 
        contract; and the account from which the funds are being drawn.

    Sec. 508.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no agency 
shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional facilities, except 
within or contiguous to existing locations, to be used for the purpose 
of conducting Federal law enforcement training without advance 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, except that the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Centers is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional 
facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for training that 
cannot be accommodated in existing Centers' facilities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for expenses for any construction, 
repair, alteration, or acquisition project for which a prospectus 
otherwise required under chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, has 
not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each 
project for required expenses for the development of a proposed 
prospectus.
    Sec. 510 <<NOTE: Applicability.>> .  Sections 520, 522, and 530 of 
the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008 (division E 
of Public Law 110-161; 121 Stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply with respect 
to funds made available in this Act in the same manner as such sections 
applied to funds made available in that Act.

    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the applicable provisions of the Buy American 
Act: <<NOTE: Definition.>>  Provided, That for purposes of the preceding 
sentence, the term ``Buy American Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2528]]

    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to amend the oath of allegiance required by section 337 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448).
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds provided or otherwise made available in 
this Act shall be available to carry out section 872 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 452) unless explicitly authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 514. <<NOTE: National identification.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used for planning, testing, piloting, or 
developing a national identification card.

    Sec. 515. <<NOTE: Delegation of authority.>>   Any official that is 
required by this Act to report or to certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives may not 
delegate such authority to perform that act unless specifically 
authorized herein.

    Sec. 516. <<NOTE: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. Detainees. Cuba.>>   None 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release to or within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of 
        Defense.

    Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class travel by the employees of agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to employ workers described in section 274A(h)(3) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3)).
    Sec. 519.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or performance that 
does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 520. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>   None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used by the Department of 
Homeland Security to enter into any Federal contract unless such 
contract is entered into in accordance with the requirements of subtitle 
I of title 41, United States Code, or chapter 137 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless such 
contract is otherwise authorized by statute to be entered into without 
regard to the above referenced statutes.

    Sec. 521. <<NOTE: Pornography.>>  (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer 
network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
exchanging of pornography.

    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary 
for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any 
other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or 
adjudication activities.
    Sec. 522. <<NOTE: Firearms.>>  None of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used by a Federal law enforcement officer to facilitate 
the transfer of an operable firearm to an individual if the Federal law 
enforcement officer knows or suspects that the individual is

[[Page 133 STAT. 2529]]

an agent of a drug cartel unless law enforcement personnel of the United 
States continuously monitor or control the firearm at all times.

    Sec. 523. <<NOTE: Determination. Notification. Deadline.>>   None of 
the funds made available in this Act may be used to pay for the travel 
to or attendance of more than 50 employees of a single component of the 
Department of Homeland Security, who are stationed in the United States, 
at a single international conference unless the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, or a designee, determines that such attendance is in the 
national interest and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives within at least 10 days of that 
determination and the basis for that determination:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Definition.>> That for purposes of this section the 
term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference occurring 
outside of the United States attended by representatives of the United 
States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations:  Provided further, That 
the total cost to the Department of Homeland Security of any such 
conference shall not exceed $500,000.

    Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to reimburse any Federal department or agency for its participation in a 
National Special Security Event.
    Sec. 525. <<NOTE: Pay reform. Time period. Effective 
date. Notification.>>   None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Homeland Security by this or any other Act may be 
obligated for any structural pay reform that affects more than 100 full-
time positions or costs more than $5,000,000 in a single year before the 
end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary of 
Homeland Security submits to Congress a notification that includes--
            (1) the number of full-time positions affected by such 
        change;
            (2) funding required for such change for the current year 
        and through the Future Years Homeland Security Program;
            (3) justification for such change; and
            (4) <<NOTE: Analysis.>>  an analysis of compensation 
        alternatives to such change that were considered by the 
        Department.

    Sec. 526. <<NOTE: Web posting. Public 
information. Reports. Determination.>>  (a) Any agency receiving funds 
made available in this Act shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), 
post on the public website of that agency any report required to be 
submitted by the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives in this Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises homeland or 
        national security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.

    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives for not 
less than 45 days except as otherwise specified in law.
    Sec. 527. (a) Funding provided in this Act for ``Operations and 
Support'' may be used for minor procurement, construction, and 
improvements.
    (b) For purposes of subsection (a), ``minor'' refers to end items 
with a unit cost of $250,000 or less for personal property, and 
$2,000,000 or less for real property.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2530]]

    Sec. 528. <<NOTE: Approval.>>   None of the funds made available by 
this Act may be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.

    Sec. 529. The authority <<NOTE: Education. Extension.>>  provided by 
section 532 of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
2018 (Public Law 115-141) regarding primary and secondary schooling of 
dependents shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2020.

    Sec. 530. (a) For an additional amount for ``Federal Emergency 
Management Agency--Federal Assistance'', $41,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, exclusively for providing 
reimbursement of extraordinary law enforcement personnel costs for 
protection activities directly and demonstrably associated with any 
residence of the President that is designated or identified to be 
secured by the United States Secret Service.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Subsections (b) through (f) of section 
534 of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2018 
(Public Law 115-141), shall be applied with respect to amounts made 
available by subsection (a) of this section by substituting ``October 1, 
2020'' for ``October 1, 2018'' and ``October 1, 2019'' for ``October 1, 
2017''.

    Sec. 531. <<NOTE: Applicability. 6 USC 391 note.>>  (a) Section 831 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall be applied--
            (1) In subsection (a), by substituting ``September 30, 
        2020,'' for ``September 30, 2017,''; and
            (2) In subsection (c)(1), by substituting ``September 30, 
        2020,'' for ``September 30, 2017''.

    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, under the authority of 
section 831 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391(a)), may 
carry out prototype projects under section 2371b of title 10, United 
States Code, and the Secretary shall perform the functions of the 
Secretary of Defense as prescribed.
    (c) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  The Secretary of Homeland Security under 
section 831 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391(d)) may 
use the definition of nontraditional government contractor as defined in 
section 2371b(e) of title 10, United States Code.

    Sec. 532. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Homeland Security by this Act may be used 
to prevent any of the following persons from entering, for the purpose 
of conducting oversight, any facility operated by or for the Department 
of Homeland Security used to detain or otherwise house aliens, or to 
make any temporary modification at any such facility that in any way 
alters what is observed by a visiting member of Congress or such 
designated employee, compared to what would be observed in the absence 
of such modification:
    (1) A Member of Congress.
    (2) An employee of the United States House of Representatives or the 
United States Senate designated by such a Member for the purposes of 
this section.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to require a Member of 
Congress to provide prior notice of the intent to enter a facility 
described in subsection (a) for the purpose of conducting oversight.
    (c) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  With respect to individuals described in 
subsection (a)(2), the Department of Homeland Security may require that 
a request be made at least 24 hours in advance of an intent to enter a 
facility described in subsection (a).

[[Page 133 STAT. 2531]]

    Sec. 533. <<NOTE: Pregnant women.>>  (a) Except as provided in 
subsection (b), none of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to place restraints on a woman in the custody of the Department of 
Homeland Security (including during transport, in a detention facility, 
or at an outside medical facility) who is pregnant or in post-delivery 
recuperation.

    (b) <<NOTE: Determinations.>> Subsection (a) shall not apply with 
respect to a pregnant woman if--
            (1) an appropriate official of the Department of Homeland 
        Security makes an individualized determination that the woman--
                    (A) is a serious flight risk, and such risk cannot 
                be prevented by other means; or
                    (B) poses an immediate and serious threat to harm 
                herself or others that cannot be prevented by other 
                means; or
            (2) a medical professional responsible for the care of the 
        pregnant woman determines that the use of therapeutic restraints 
        is appropriate for the medical safety of the woman.

    (c) If a pregnant woman is restrained pursuant to subsection (b), 
only the safest and least restrictive restraints, as determined by the 
appropriate medical professional treating the woman, may be used. In no 
case may restraints be used on a woman who is in active labor or 
delivery, and in no case may a pregnant woman be restrained in a face-
down position with four-point restraints, on her back, or in a restraint 
belt that constricts the area of the pregnancy. A pregnant woman who is 
immobilized by restraints shall be positioned, to the maximum extent 
feasible, on her left side.
    Sec. 534. <<NOTE: Records. Sexual assault.>>  None of the funds made 
available by this Act to the Department of Homeland Security may be used 
to destroy any document, recording, or other record pertaining to any 
potential sexual assault or abuse perpetrated against any individual 
held in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security.

    Sec. 535. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>   Section 519 of division F of 
Public Law 114-113, regarding a prohibition on funding for any position 
designated as a Principal Federal Official, shall apply with respect to 
funds made available in this Act in the same manner as such section 
applied to funds made available in that Act.

    Sec. 536. <<NOTE: Deadline. Budget submission.>>   Within 60 days of 
any budget submission for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal 
year 2021 that assumes revenues or proposes a reduction from the 
previous year based on user fees proposals that have not been enacted 
into law prior to the submission of the budget, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives specific reductions in proposed 
discretionary budget authority commensurate with the revenues assumed in 
such proposals in the event that they are not enacted prior to October 
1, 2020.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 537. (a) Of the unobligated balances of funds made available 
under the heading ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Operations and 
Support'' in Title III of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for 
Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019 
(Public Law 116-26), $233,000,000 are hereby rescinded.

[[Page 133 STAT. 2532]]

    (b) The amounts rescinded pursuant to subsection (a) that were 
previously designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to that section of that Act.
    Sec. 538.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Homeland 
Security, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following 
accounts and programs in the specified amounts:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 (Public Law 99-177):
            (1) $91,000,000 from Public Law 116-6 under the heading 
        ``Customs and Border Protection--Operations and Support''.
            (2) $38,000,000 from Public Law 116-6 under the heading `` 
        `Customs and Border Protection--Procurement, Construction and 
        Improvements''.
            (3) $20,000,000 from Public Law 115-141 under the heading 
        ``Customs and Border Protection--Procurement, Construction, and 
        Improvements''.
            (4) $5,000,000 from Public Law 115-141 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard--Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation''.
            (5) $42,379,000 from Public Law 116-6 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration--Operations and 
        Support''.
            (6) $5,764,000 from Public Law 116-6 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration--Procurement, 
        Construction and Improvements''.

    Sec. 539.  The following unobligated balances made available to the 
Department of Homeland Security pursuant to Section 505 of the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 
116-6) are rescinded:
            (1) $153,000 from ``Office of the Secretary and Executive 
        Management--Operations and Support''
            (2) $304,000 from ``Management Directorate--Operations and 
        Support'';
            (3) $130,000 from ``Intelligence, Analysis, and Operations 
        Coordination--Operations and Support'';
            (4) $3,600 from ``Office of Inspector General--Operations 
        and Support'';
            (5) $269,000 from ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--
        Operations and Support'';
            (6) $8,999,000 from ``U.S. Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement--Operations and Support'';
            (7) $69,000 from ``Coast Guard--Operations and Support'';
            (8) $695,000 from ``United States Secret Service--Operations 
        and Support'';
            (9) $3,915,000 from ``Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Security Agency--Operations and Support'';
            (10) $1,815,000 from ``U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
        Services--Operations and Support'';
            (11) $313,000 from ``Federal Law Enforcement Training 
        Centers--Operations and Support'';
            (12) $273,000 from ``Science and Technology Directorate--
        Operations and Support'';

[[Page 133 STAT. 2533]]

            (13) $1,596,000 from ``Countering Weapons of Mass 
        Destruction Office--Operations and Support''.

    Sec. 540.  Of the unobligated balances made available to ``Federal 
Emergency Management Agency--Disaster Relief Fund'', $300,000,000 shall 
be rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended:  Provided 
further, That no amounts may be rescinded from the amounts that were 
designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
     This division may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act, 2020''.

    Approved December 20, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1158:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 116-89 (Comm. on Homeland Security).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            June 10, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 24, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Dec. 17, House concurred in Senate amendment with an 
                amendment. Senate considered House amendment.
            Dec. 19, Senate concurred in House amendment.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2019):
            Dec. 20, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>
