Public Law 111-212
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
    30, 2010, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 29, 2010 -  [H.R. 
                                4899]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2010.>>  That the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For an additional amount for gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct and guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) 
and operating (7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, to be available from funds 
in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: guaranteed farm 
ownership loans, $300,000,000; operating loans, $650,000,000, of which 
$250,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $50,000,000 
shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans, and $350,000,000 shall be for 
direct loans.
    For an additional amount for the cost of direct and guaranteed 
loans, including the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: guaranteed farm 
ownership loans, $1,110,000; operating loans, $29,470,000, of which 
$5,850,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans, $7,030,000 shall 
be for subsidized guaranteed loans, and $16,590,000 shall be for direct 
loans.
    For an additional amount for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $1,000,000.

                  Emergency Forest Restoration Program

    For implementation of the emergency forest restoration program 
established under section 407 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 2206) for expenses resulting from natural disasters that occurred 
on or after January 1, 2010, and for other purposes, $18,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the program: (1) shall 
be carried out without regard

[[Page 124 STAT. 2303]]

to chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as the 
``Paperwork Reduction Act'') and the Statement of Policy of the 
Secretary of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), 
relating to notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
rulemaking; and (2) with rules issued without a prior opportunity for 
notice and comment except, as determined to be appropriate by the Farm 
Service Agency, rules may be promulgated by an interim rule effective on 
publication with an opportunity for notice and comment: Provided 
further, That in carrying out this program, the Secretary shall use the 
authority provided under section 808(2) of title 5, United States Code: 
Provided further, That to reduce Federal costs in administering this 
heading, the emergency forest restoration program shall be considered to 
have met the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for activities similar in nature and 
quantity to those of the emergency conservation program established 
under title IV of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.).

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For an additional amount for ``Food for Peace Title II Grants'' for 
emergency relief and rehabilitation, and other expenses related to Haiti 
following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for other disaster-
response activities relating to the earthquake, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

  Section 101. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out a biomass crop assistance program as authorized 
by section 9011 of Public Law 107-171 in excess of $552,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2010 or $432,000,000 in fiscal year 2011: Provided, That 
section 3002 shall not apply to the amount under this section.
    Sec. 102. (a) <<NOTE: Loans.>>  Section 502(h)(8) of the Housing Act 
of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(h)(8)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(8) Fees.--Notwithstanding paragraph (14)(D), with respect 
        to a guaranteed loan issued or modified under this subsection, 
        the Secretary may collect from the lender--
                    ``(A) at the time of issuance of the guarantee or 
                modification, a fee not to exceed 3.5 percent of the 
                principal obligation of the loan; and
                    ``(B) an annual fee not to exceed 0.5 percent of the 
                outstanding principal balance of the loan for the life 
                of the loan.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Repeal.>>  Section 739 of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriation Act, 2001 (H.R. 5426 as enacted by Public Law 106-387, 115 
Stat. 1549A-34) is <<NOTE: 42 USC 1472 note. Waiver authority.>>  
repealed.

    (c) For gross obligations for the principal amount of guaranteed 
loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, to be 
available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, an additional 
amount shall be for section 502 unsubsidized guaranteed loans sufficient 
to meet the remaining fiscal year 2010 demand,

[[Page 124 STAT. 2304]]

provided that existing program underwriting standards are maintained, 
and provided further that the Secretary may waive fees described herein 
for very low- and low-income borrowers, not to exceed $697,000,000 in 
loan guarantees.

                                CHAPTER 2

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under the heading ``National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration'' for Digital-to-
Analog Converter Box Program in prior years, $111,500,000 are rescinded.

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    Pursuant to section 703 of the Public Works and Economic Development 
Act (42 U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for ``Economic 
Development Assistance Programs'', for necessary expenses related to 
disaster relief, long-term recovery, and restoration of infrastructure 
in States that experienced damage due to severe storms and flooding 
during March 2010 through May 2010 for which the President declared a 
major disaster covering an entire State or States with more than 20 
counties declared major disasters under title IV of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act of 1974, 
$49,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', $5,000,000, for necessary expenses related to commercial 
fishery failures as determined by the Secretary of Commerce in January 
2010.

              NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

                               Exploration

    The matter contained in title III of division B of Public Law 111-
117 regarding ``National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Exploration'' is <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 3143.>>  amended by inserting at the 
end of the last proviso ``: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  
notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, funds made 
available for Constellation in fiscal year 2010 for `National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Exploration' and from previous 
appropriations for `National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Exploration' shall be available to fund continued performance of 
Constellation contracts, and performance of such Constellation contracts 
may not be terminated

[[Page 124 STAT. 2305]]

for convenience by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 
fiscal year 2010''.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$1,429,809,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$40,478,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$145,499,000.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$94,068,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$5,722,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$2,637,000.

                     Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$34,758,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$1,292,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$33,184,000.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$11,719,927,000, of which $218,300,000 shall be available

[[Page 124 STAT. 2306]]

to restore amounts transferred from this account to ``Overseas 
Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid'' for emergency relief activities 
related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for 
other disaster-response activities relating to the earthquake.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$2,735,194,000, of which $187,600,000 shall be available to restore 
amounts transferred from this account to ``Overseas Humanitarian, 
Disaster, and Civic Aid'' for emergency relief activities related to 
Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for other 
disaster-response activities relating to the earthquake.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $829,326,000, of which $30,700,000 shall be available to 
restore amounts transferred from this account to ``Overseas 
Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid'' for emergency relief activities 
related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for 
other disaster-response activities relating to the earthquake.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $3,835,095,000, of which $218,400,000 shall be available to 
restore amounts transferred from this account to ``Overseas 
Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid'' for emergency relief activities 
related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for 
other disaster-response activities relating to the earthquake.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,236,727,000: Provided, That up to $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be available for transfer to the Port of 
Guam Improvement Enterprise Fund established by section 3512 of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
(Public Law 110-417): Provided further, That funds transferred under the 
previous proviso shall be merged with and available for obligation for 
the same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination. Port 
facilities.>>  these funds may be transferred by the Secretary of 
Defense only if he determines such amounts are required to improve 
facilities, relieve port congestion, and provide greater access to port 
facilities: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Guam.>>  any amounts 
transferred pursuant to the previous three provisos shall be available 
to the Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Administrator of 
the Maritime Administration, to carry out under the Port of Guam 
Improvement Enterprise Program planning, design, and construction of 
projects for the Port of Guam to improve facilities, relieve port 
congestion, and provide greater access to port facilities: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority in this section is in addition to 
any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  the Secretary 
shall, not

[[Page 124 STAT. 2307]]

fewer than five days prior to making transfers under this authority, 
notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the details of 
any such transfer.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $41,006,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $75,878,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $857,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $124,039,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $180,960,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $203,287,000.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 
$2,604,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, 
That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing 
the Commander, Combined Security Transition Command--Afghanistan, or the 
Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, to the security forces of Afghanistan, including the 
provision of equipment, supplies, services, training, facility and 
infrastructure repair, renovation, and construction, and funding: 
Provided further, That the authority to provide assistance under this 
heading is in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to 
foreign nations: Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
purposes provided herein from any person, foreign government, or 
international organization may be credited to this Fund, to remain 
available until expended, and used for such 
purposes: <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing upon the 
receipt and upon the transfer of any contribution, delineating the 
sources and amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such 
contributions: <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to making 
transfers from this appropriation account, notify the

[[Page 124 STAT. 2308]]

congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such 
transfer.

                        Iraq Security Forces Fund

    For the ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'', $1,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011: Provided, That such funds shall be 
available to the Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for the purpose of allowing the Commander, United 
States Forces--Iraq, or the Secretary's designee, to provide assistance, 
with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, to the security forces 
of Iraq, including the provision of equipment, supplies, services, 
training, facility and infrastructure repair, and renovation: Provided 
further, That the authority to provide assistance under this heading is 
in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign 
nations: Provided further, That contributions of funds for the purposes 
provided herein from any person, foreign government, or international 
organization may be credited to this Fund, to remain available until 
expended, and used for such purposes: <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense 
committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the transfer of any 
contribution, delineating the sources and amounts of the funds received 
and the specific use of such 
contributions: <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to making 
transfers from this appropriation account, notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the details of any such transfer.

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$219,470,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $3,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2012.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$17,055,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$2,065,006,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$296,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2309]]

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$31,576,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$162,927,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$174,766,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$672,741,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$189,276,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012.

              Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Mine Resistant Ambush Protected 
Vehicle Fund'', $1,123,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011: Provided, That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Defense, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to procure, 
sustain, transport, and field Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall transfer such funds only to 
appropriations for operations and maintenance; procurement; research, 
development, test and evaluation; and defense working capital funds to 
accomplish the purpose provided herein: Provided further, That the funds 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as the appropriation to which they are transferred: 
Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  the Secretary 
shall, not fewer than 10 days prior to making transfers from this 
appropriation, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of 
the details of any such transfer.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $44,835,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2011.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2310]]

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $163,775,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $65,138,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2011.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$1,134,887,000, to remain available until expended.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', $33,367,000 
for operation and maintenance: Provided, That language under this 
heading in title VI, division A of Public Law 111-118 is 
amended <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 3424.>>  by striking ``$15,093,539,000'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``$15,121,714,000''.

              Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $94,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2011.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 
504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)): 
Provided, That section 8079 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-118; 123 Stat. 3446) is amended by striking 
``fiscal year 2010 until'' and all that follows and insert ``fiscal year 
2010.''.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 302.  Section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (division A of Public Law 111-118) is <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 
3427.>>  amended by striking ``$4,000,000,000'' and inserting 
``$4,500,000,000''.

    Sec. 303.  Funds made available in this chapter to the Department of 
Defense for operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
having an investment unit cost of not more than $250,000: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  upon determination by the Secretary of 
Defense that such action is necessary to meet the operational 
requirements of a Commander of a Combatant Command engaged

[[Page 124 STAT. 2311]]

in contingency operations overseas, such funds may be used to purchase 
items having an investment item unit cost of not more than $500,000.

    Sec. 304. Of <<NOTE: Haiti.>>  the funds obligated or expended by 
any Federal agency in support of emergency humanitarian assistance 
services at the request of or in coordination with the Department of 
Defense, the Department of State, or the U.S. Agency for International 
Development, on or after January 12, 2010 and before February 12, 2010, 
in support of the Haitian earthquake relief efforts not to exceed 
$500,000 are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress.

    Sec. 305. Section <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  8011 of the title VIII, 
division A of Public Law 111-118 is <<NOTE: 10 USC 2306b note.>>  
amended by striking ``within 30 days of enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``30 days prior to contract award''.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 306. (a) Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriation Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts:
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force, 2009/2011'', $5,000,000; and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army, 2009/
        2010'', $72,161,000.

    (b) Section 3002 shall not apply to the amounts in this section.
    Sec. 307. None <<NOTE: Notification.>>  of the funds provided in 
this chapter may be used to finance programs or activities denied by 
Congress in fiscal years 2009 or 2010 appropriations to the Department 
of Defense or to initiate a procurement or research, development, test 
and evaluation new start program without prior written notification to 
the congressional defense committees.

       high-value detainee interrogation group charter and report

    Sec. 308. (a) Submission of Charter and Procedures.--Not later than 
30 days after the final approval of the charter and procedures for the 
interagency body established to carry out an interrogation pursuant to a 
recommendation of the report of the Special Task Force on interrogation 
and Transfer Policies submitted under section 5(g) of Executive Order 
13491 (commonly known as the High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group), 
or not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
whichever is later, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit 
to the congressional intelligence committees such charter and 
procedures.
    (b) Updates.--Not later than 30 days after the final approval of any 
significant modification or revision to the charter or procedures 
referred to in subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees any such 
modification or revision.
    (c) Lessons Learned.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report setting 
forth an analysis and assessment of the lessons learned as a result of 
the operations and activities of the High-Value Detainee Interrogation 
Group since the establishment of that group.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2312]]

    (d) Submittal of Charter and Reports to Additional Committees of 
Congress.--At the same time the Director of National Intelligence 
submits the charter and procedures referred to in subsection (a), any 
modification or revision to the charter or procedures under subsection 
(b), and any report under subsection (c) to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Director shall also submit such matter to--
            (1) the Committees on Armed Services, Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, the Judiciary, and Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committees on Armed Services, Homeland Security, the 
        Judiciary, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                             investigations

    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'', <<NOTE: Studies.>>  
$5,400,000: Provided, That funds provided under this heading in this 
chapter shall be used for studies in States affected by severe storms 
and flooding: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
Act.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' 
to dredge eligible projects in response to, and repair damages to 
Federal projects caused by, natural disasters, $18,600,000, to remain 
available until expended: <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  Provided, That 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a 
monthly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
Act.

                        operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' to dredge 
navigation projects in response to, and repair damages to Corps projects 
caused by, natural disasters, $173,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army is directed to use 
$44,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading for nondisaster 
related emergency repairs to critical 
infrastructure: <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  Provided further, That 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a 
monthly report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of

[[Page 124 STAT. 2313]]

these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of this 
Act.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses relating to natural disasters 
as authorized by law, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning 
not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER


                        emergency drought relief


    Sec. 401. For an additional amount for ``Water and Related 
Resources'', $10,000,000, for drought emergency assistance: Provided, 
That financial assistance may be provided under the Reclamation States 
Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) and any 
other applicable Federal law (including regulations) for the 
optimization and conservation of project water supplies to assist 
drought-plagued areas of the West.
    Sec. 402.  Funds made available in the Energy and Water Development 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-85), under 
the account ``Weapons Activities'' shall be available for the purchase 
of not to exceed one aircraft.

  reclassification of certain appropriations for the national nuclear 
                         security administration

    Sec. 403. (a) Fiscal Year 2009 Appropriations.--The matter under the 
heading ``Weapons Activities'' under the heading ``National Nuclear 
Security Administration'' under the heading ``Atomic Energy Defense 
Activities'' under the heading ``Department of Energy'' under title III 
of division C of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8; 
123 Stat. 621) is amended by striking ``the 09-D-007 LANSCE 
Refurbishment, PED,'' and inserting ``capital equipment acquisition, 
installation, and associated design funds for LANSCE,''.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2010 Appropriations.--The amount appropriated under 
the heading ``Weapons Activities'' under the heading ``National Nuclear 
Security Administration'' under the heading ``Atomic Energy Defense 
Activities'' under the heading ``Department of Energy'' under title III 
of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-85; 123 Stat. 2866) and made available for 
LANSCE Reinvestment, PED, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, 
New Mexico, shall be made available instead for capital equipment 
acquisition, installation, and associated design funds for LANSCE, Los 
Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico.
    Sec. 404. (a) Section 104(c) of the Reclamation States Emergency 
Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2214(c)) is amended by striking 
``September 30, 2010'' and inserting ``September 30, 2012'' in lieu 
thereof.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2314]]

    (b) Section 301 of the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief 
Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2241) is amended by striking ``through 2010'' and 
inserting ``through 2012'' in lieu thereof.
    Sec. 405. (a) The <<NOTE: Texas.>>  Secretary of the Army shall not 
be required to make a determination under the National Historic 
Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470, et seq.) for the project for 
flood control, Trinity River and tributaries, Texas, authorized by 
section 2 of the Act entitled ``An Act authorizing the construction, 
repair, and preservation of certain public works on rivers and harbors, 
and for other purposes'', approved March 2, 1945 [59 Stat. 18], as 
modified by section 5141 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 
[121 Stat. 1253].

    (b) <<NOTE: Exemption.>>  The Federal Highway Administration is 
exempt from the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 303 and 23 U.S.C. 138 for any 
highway project to be constructed in the vicinity of the Dallas 
Floodway, Dallas, Texas.

    Sec. 406. (a) The Secretary of the Army may use funds made available 
under the heading ``operation and maintenance'' of this chapter to 
place, at full Federal expense, dredged material available from 
maintenance dredging of existing Federal navigation channels located in 
the Gulf Coast region to mitigate the impacts of the Deepwater Horizon 
Oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
    (b) The Secretary of the Army shall coordinate the placement of 
dredged material with appropriate Federal and Gulf Coast State agencies.
    (c) The placement of dredged material pursuant to this section shall 
not be subject to a least-cost-disposal analysis or to the development 
of a Chief of Engineers report.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall affect the ability or authority of 
the Federal Government to recover costs from an entity determined to be 
a responsible party in connection with the Deepwater Horizon Oil spill 
pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 or any other applicable 
Federal statute for actions undertaken pursuant to this section.

                                CHAPTER 5

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses for emergency relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, 
and other expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 
12, 2010, and for other disaster-response activities relating to the 
earthquake, $690,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to reimburse 
obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment 
of this Act.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2315]]

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available for necessary expenses of the Office 
of Inspector General under this heading in Public Law 111-117, 
$1,800,000 are rescinded: Provided, That section 3002 shall not apply to 
the amount under this heading.

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                              Federal Funds

   federal payment to the public defender service for the district of 
                                columbia

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Payment to the Public 
Defender Service for the District of Columbia'', $700,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012.
    Of the funds provided under this heading for ``Federal Payment to 
the District of Columbia Public Defender Service'' in title IV of 
division D of Public Law 111-8, $700,000 are rescinded: Provided, That 
section 3002 shall not apply to the amounts under this heading.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                   Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Financial Crisis Inquiry 
Commission established pursuant to section 5 of the Fraud Enforcement 
and Recovery Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-21), $1,800,000, to remain 
available until February 15, 2011: Provided, That section 3002 shall not 
apply to the amount under this heading.

                                CHAPTER 6

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                               Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses and other disaster-response activities related to Haiti 
following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2012.

               acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $15,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2014, for aircraft replacement.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2316]]

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'', $5,100,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Homeland Security Office of the 
Inspector General for audits and investigations related to disasters.

           United States Citizenship and Immigration Services

    For an additional amount for ``United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Services'' for necessary expenses and other disaster 
response activities related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 
12, 2010, $10,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 601.  Notwithstanding the 10 percent limitation contained in 
section 503(c) of Public Law 111-83, for fiscal year 2010, the Secretary 
of Homeland Security may transfer to the fund established by 8 U.S.C. 
1101 note, up to $20,000,000, from appropriations available to the 
Department of Homeland Security: <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  
Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 5 days in 
advance of such transfer.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 602. (a) The following unobligated balances made available 
pursuant to section 505 of Public Law 110-329 are rescinded: $2,200,000 
from Coast Guard ``Operating Expenses''; $1,800,000 from the ``Office of 
the Secretary and Executive Management''; and $489,152 from ``Analysis 
and Operations''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Repeal.>>  The third clause of the proviso directing the 
expenditure of funds under the heading ``Alteration of Bridges'' in the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2009, <<NOTE: 122 
Stat. 3666.>>  is repealed, and from available balances made available 
for Coast Guard ``Alteration of Bridges'', $5,910,848 are rescinded: 
Provided, That funds rescinded pursuant to this subsection shall exclude 
balances made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-5).

    (c) From the unobligated balances of appropriations made available 
in Public Law 111-83 to the ``Office of the Federal Coordinator for Gulf 
Coast Rebuilding'', $700,000 are rescinded.
    (d) Section 3002 shall not apply to the amounts in this section.
    Sec. 603.  The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency shall consider satisfied for Hurricane Katrina the non-Federal 
match requirement for assistance provided by the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency pursuant to section 404(a) of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5170c(a).
    Sec. 604.  Funds appropriated in Public Law 111-83 under the heading 
National Protection and Programs Directorate ``Infrastructure Protection 
and Information Security'' shall be available

[[Page 124 STAT. 2317]]

for facility upgrades and related costs to establish a United States 
Computer Emergency Readiness Team Operations Support Center/Continuity 
of Operations capability.
    Sec. 605.  Two C-130J aircraft funded elsewhere in this Act shall be 
transferred to the Coast Guard.
    Sec. 606.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including any 
agreement, the Federal share of assistance, including direct Federal 
assistance provided under sections 403, 406, and 407 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5140b, 
5172, and 5173), for damages resulting from FEMA-3311-EM-RI, FEMA-1894-
DR, FEMA-1906-DR, FEMA-1909-DR, and all other areas Presidentially 
declared a disaster, prior to or following enactment, and resulting from 
the May 1 and 2, 2010 weather events that elicited FEMA-1909-DR, shall 
not be less than 90 percent of the eligible costs under such sections.
    Sec. 607. (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Security directive. List.>>  Not 
later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration shall 
issue a security directive that requires a commercial foreign air 
carrier who operates flights in and out of the United States to check 
the list of individuals that the Transportation Security Administration 
has prohibited from flying not later than 30 minutes after such list is 
modified and provided to such air carrier.

    (b) The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply to commercial 
foreign air carriers that operate flights in and out of the United 
States and that are enrolled in the Secure Flight program or that are 
Advance Passenger Information System Quick Query (AQQ) compliant.

                                CHAPTER 7

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Departmental Management'' for mine 
safety activities and legal services related to the Department of 
Labor's caseload before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review 
Commission (``FMSHRC''), $18,200,000, which shall remain available for 
obligation through the date that is 12 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may 
transfer such sums as necessary to the ``Mine Safety and Health 
Administration'' for enforcement and mine safety activities, which may 
include conference litigation functions related to the FMSHRC caseload, 
investigation of the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster, standards and 
rulemaking activities, emergency response equipment purchases and 
upgrades, and organizational improvements: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives are notified at least 15 
days in advance of any transfer.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2318]]

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'' for necessary expenses for emergency relief and 
reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to Haiti following the 
earthquake of January 12, 2010, and for other disaster-response 
activities relating to the earthquake, $220,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds may be transferred by the 
Secretary to accounts within the Department of Health and Human 
Services, shall be merged with the appropriation to which transferred, 
and shall be available only for the purposes provided herein: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this paragraph may be 
transferred prior to notification of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided in this paragraph is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available in this or any other Act: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to 
reimburse agencies for obligations incurred for the purposes provided 
herein prior to enactment of this Act: Provided further, That funds may 
be used for the non-Federal share of expenditures for medical assistance 
furnished under title XIX of the Social Security Act, and for child 
health assistance furnished under title XXI of such Act, that are 
related to earthquake response activities: Provided further, That funds 
may be used for services performed by the National Disaster Medical 
System in connection with such earthquake, for the return of evacuated 
Haitian citizens to Haiti, and for grants to States and other entities 
to reimburse payments made for otherwise uncompensated health and human 
services furnished in connection with individuals given permission by 
the United States Government to come from Haiti to the United States 
after such earthquake, and not eligible for assistance under such 
titles: Provided further, That the limitation in subsection (d) of 
section 1113 of the Social Security Act shall not apply with respect to 
any repatriation assistance provided in response to the Haiti earthquake 
of January 12, 2010: Provided further, That with respect to the previous 
proviso, such additional repatriation assistance shall only be available 
from the funds appropriated herein.

                             RELATED AGENCY

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Mine Safety and Health Review 
Commission, Salaries and Expenses''$3,800,000, to remain available for 
obligation for 12 months after enactment of this Act.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2319]]

                                CHAPTER 8

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

       Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For a <<NOTE: Joyce Murtha.>>  payment to Joyce Murtha, widow of 
John P. Murtha, late a Representative from Pennsylvania, $174,000: 
Provided, That section 3002 shall not apply to this appropriation.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                            General Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol Police, General Expenses'' to 
purchase and install the indoor coverage portion of the new radio system 
for the Capitol Police, $12,956,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2012: <<NOTE: Obligation plan.>>  Provided, That the Chief of the 
Capitol Police may not obligate any of the funds appropriated under this 
heading without approval of an obligation plan by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

                                CHAPTER 9

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                       Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$242,296,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$406,590,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

           Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing Operation and 
Maintenance, Air Force'', $7,953,000.

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

    For an additional amount for ``Compensation and Pensions'', 
$13,377,189,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
section 3002 shall not apply to the amount under this heading.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2320]]

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 901. (a) Of the amounts made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs under the ``Construction, Major Projects'' account, in 
fiscal year 2010 or previous fiscal years, up to $67,000,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Filipino Veterans Equity Compensation Fund'' 
account or may be retained in the ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
account and used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for such major 
medical facility projects (as defined under section 8104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code) that have been authorized by law as the Secretary 
considers appropriate: Provided, That any amount transferred from 
``Construction, Major Projects'' shall be derived from unobligated 
balances that are a direct result of bid savings: Provided further, That 
no amounts may be transferred from amounts that were designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    (b) Section 3002 shall not apply to the amount in this section.


   limitation on use of funds available to the department of veterans 
                                 affairs


    Sec. 902. The <<NOTE: Agent Orange.>>  amount made available to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs by this chapter under the heading 
``Veterans Benefits Administration'' under the heading ``compensation 
and pensions'' may not be obligated or expended until the expiration of 
the period for Congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Congressional Review 
Act''), of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs pursuant to section 1116 of title 38, United States Code, to 
establish a service connection between exposure of veterans to Agent 
Orange during service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era 
and hairy cell leukemia and other chronic B cell leukemias, Parkinson's 
disease, and ischemic heart disease.

                               CHAPTER 10

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$1,261,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, 
That the Secretary of State may transfer up to $149,500,000 of the total 
funds made available under this heading to any other appropriation of 
any department or agency of the United States, upon concurrence of the 
head of such department or agency and after consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations, to support operations in and assistance 
for Afghanistan and

[[Page 124 STAT. 2321]]

Pakistan and to carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961.
    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' 
for necessary expenses for emergency relief, rehabilitation, and 
reconstruction support, and other expenses related to Haiti following 
the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $65,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph may be used to reimburse obligations incurred for the purposes 
provided herein prior to enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
up to $3,700,000 of the funds made available in this paragraph may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading 
``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'': Provided 
further, That up to $290,000 of the funds made available in this 
paragraph may be transferred to, and merged with, funds made available 
under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program Account''.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'' for 
necessary expenses for oversight of operations and programs in 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq, $3,600,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2013.

             embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'' for necessary expenses for emergency needs in Haiti 
following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $79,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph may be used to reimburse obligations incurred for the purposes 
provided herein prior to enactment of this Act.

                       International Organizations

         contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'' for necessary expenses for emergency security 
related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, 
$96,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: Provided, 
That funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to reimburse 
obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment 
of this Act.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Broadcasting Board of Governors

                  international broadcasting operations

    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'' for necessary expenses for emergency broadcasting support 
and other expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 
12, 2010, $3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph

[[Page 124 STAT. 2322]]

may be used to reimburse obligations incurred for the purposes provided 
herein prior to enactment of this Act.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'' for 
necessary expenses for oversight of operations and programs in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan, $3,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2013.
    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'' for 
necessary expenses for oversight of emergency relief, rehabilitation, 
and reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to Haiti following 
the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $4,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2012: Provided, That up to $1,500,000 of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be used to reimburse obligations 
incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment of this 
Act.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                    global health and child survival

    For an additional amount for ``Global Health and Child Survival'' 
for necessary expenses for pandemic preparedness and response, 
$45,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2011.

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'' 
for necessary expenses for emergency relief and rehabilitation, and 
other expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 
2010, $460,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used to reimburse 
obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment 
of this Act.

                          Economic Support Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$1,620,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012, of which 
not less than $1,309,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
Afghanistan and not less than $259,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Pakistan: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
heading in this Act and in prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs that are 
made available for assistance for Afghanistan may be made available, 
after consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for 
disarmament, demobilization

[[Page 124 STAT. 2323]]

and reintegration activities, subject to the requirements of section 
904(e) in this chapter, and for a United States contribution to an 
internationally managed fund to support the reintegration into Afghan 
society of individuals who have renounced violence against the 
Government of Afghanistan.
    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'' for necessary 
expenses for emergency relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, 
and other expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 
12, 2010, $770,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, up to 
$120,000,000 may be transferred to the Department of the Treasury for 
United States contributions to a multi-donor trust fund for 
reconstruction and recovery efforts in Haiti: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph, up to $10,000,000 may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading 
``United States Agency for International Development, Funds Appropriated 
to the President, Operating Expenses'' for administrative costs relating 
to the purposes provided herein and to reimburse obligations incurred 
for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph may be 
transferred to, and merged with, funds available under the heading 
``Development Credit Authority'' for the purposes provided herein: 
Provided further, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided by this or any other Act: Provided 
further, That funds made available to the Comptroller General pursuant 
to title I, chapter 4 of Public Law 106-31, to monitor the provision of 
assistance to address the effects of hurricanes in Central America and 
the Caribbean, shall also be available to the Comptroller General to 
monitor relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, and other 
expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, 
and shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be made available to the United 
States Agency for International Development and the Department of State 
to reimburse any accounts for obligations incurred for the purpose 
provided herein prior to enactment of this Act.
    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'' for necessary 
expenses for assistance for Jordan, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2012.

                           Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
for necessary expenses for assistance for refugees and internally 
displaced persons, $165,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Affairs Technical 
Assistance'' for necessary expenses for emergency relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to 
Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $7,100,000, to 
remain

[[Page 124 STAT. 2324]]

available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph, up to $60,000 may be used to reimburse 
obligations incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment 
of this Act.

                    INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                           Department of State

           international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $1,034,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2012: <<NOTE: Iraq. Determination. Reports.>>  Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $650,000,000 shall 
be made available for assistance for Iraq of which $450,000,000 is for 
one-time start up costs and limited operational costs of the Iraqi 
police program, and $200,000,000 is for implementation, management, 
security, communications, and other expenses related to such program and 
may be obligated only after the Secretary of State determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Iraq 
supports and is cooperating with such program: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated in this chapter for assistance for Iraq shall not be 
subject to the limitation on assistance in section 7042(b)(1) of 
division F of Public Law 111-117: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph, not less than $169,000,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for Afghanistan and not less than $40,000,000 
shall be made available for assistance for 
Pakistan: <<NOTE: Mexico. Consultation. Notification.>>  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $175,000,000 
shall be made available for assistance for Mexico for judicial reform, 
institution building, anti-corruption, and rule of law activities, and 
shall be available subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'' for necessary expenses for emergency relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to 
Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010, $147,660,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2012: Provided, That funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be used to reimburse obligations 
incurred for the purposes provided herein prior to enactment of this 
Act.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2012, of which not 
less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
Pakistan and not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Jordan.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2325]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

                        extension of authorities

    Sec. 1001.  Funds appropriated in this chapter may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).

                               allocations

    Sec. 1002. (a) Funds appropriated in this chapter for the following 
accounts shall be made available for programs and countries in the 
amounts contained in the respective tables included in the report 
accompanying this Act:
            (1) ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs''.
            (2) ``Economic Support Fund''.
            (3) ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  For the purposes of implementing this 
section, and only with respect to the tables included in the report 
accompanying this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development, as appropriate, 
may propose deviations to the amounts referred in subsection (a), 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations and section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

               spending plans and notification procedures

    Sec. 1003. (a) Spending Plans.--Not 
later <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator 
of the United States Agency for International Development, and the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, shall submit reports to the Committees 
on Appropriations detailing planned uses of funds appropriated in this 
chapter, except for funds appropriated under the headings 
``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and Refugee 
Assistance''.

    (b) Obligation Reports.--The Secretary of State, in consultation 
with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, and the Broadcasting Board of Governors, shall submit 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until September 30, 
2012, on obligations, expenditures, and program outputs and outcomes.
    (c) Notification.--Funds made available in this chapter shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations and section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
except for funds appropriated under the headings ``International 
Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and Refugee Assistance''.

                               afghanistan

    Sec. 1004. (a) <<NOTE: Reports. Applicability.>>  The terms and 
conditions of sections 1102(a), (b)(1), (c), and (d) of Public Law 111-
32 shall apply to funds appropriated in this chapter that are available 
for assistance for Afghanistan.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2326]]

    (b) Funds appropriated in this chapter and in prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' that are 
available for assistance for Afghanistan may be obligated only if the 
Secretary of State reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
prior to the disbursement of funds, representatives of the Afghan 
national, provincial or local government, local communities and civil 
society organizations, as appropriate, will be consulted and participate 
in the design of programs, projects, and activities, and following such 
disbursement will participate in implementation and oversight, and 
progress will be measured against specific benchmarks.
    (c)(1) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Funds appropriated in this chapter 
may be made available for assistance for the Government of Afghanistan 
only if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
on Appropriations that the Government of Afghanistan is--
            (A) cooperating with United States reconstruction and reform 
        efforts;
            (B) demonstrating a commitment to accountability by removing 
        corrupt officials, implementing fiscal transparency and other 
        necessary reforms of government institutions, and facilitating 
        active public engagement in governance and oversight of public 
        resources; and
            (C) respecting the internationally recognized human rights 
        of Afghan women.

    (2) If at any time after making the determination required in 
paragraph (1) the Secretary receives credible information that the 
factual basis for such determination no longer exists, the Secretary 
should suspend assistance and promptly inform the relevant Afghan 
authorities that such assistance is suspended until sufficient factual 
basis exists to support the determination.
    (d) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Funds appropriated in this chapter and 
in prior Acts that are available for assistance for Afghanistan may be 
made available to support reconciliation with, or reintegration of, 
former combatants only if the Secretary of State determines and reports 
to the Committees on Appropriations that--
            (1) Afghan women are participating at national, provincial 
        and local levels of government in the design, policy formulation 
        and implementation of the reconciliation or reintegration 
        process, and women's internationally recognized human rights are 
        protected in such process; and
            (2) such funds will not be used to support any pardon, 
        immunity from prosecution or amnesty, or any position in the 
        Government of Afghanistan or security forces, for any leader of 
        an armed group responsible for crimes against humanity, war 
        crimes, or other violations of internationally recognized human 
        rights.

    (e) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Funds appropriated in this chapter 
that are available for assistance for Afghanistan may be made available 
to support the work of the Independent Electoral Commission and the 
Electoral Complaints Commission in Afghanistan only if the Secretary of 
State determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that--
            (1) the Independent Electoral Commission has no members or 
        other employees who participated in, or helped to cover

[[Page 124 STAT. 2327]]

        up, acts of fraud in the 2009 elections for president in 
        Afghanistan, and the Electoral Complaints Commission is a 
        genuinely independent body with all the authorities that were 
        invested in it under Afghanistan law as of December 31, 2009, 
        and with no members appointed by the President of Afghanistan; 
        and
            (2) the central Government of Afghanistan has taken steps to 
        ensure that women are able to exercise their rights to political 
        participation, whether as candidates or voters.

    (f)(1) <<NOTE: Deadline. Strategy.>>  Not more than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a strategy to address 
the needs and protect the rights of Afghan women and girls, including 
planned expenditures of funds appropriated in this chapter, and detailed 
plans for implementing and monitoring such strategy.

    (2) Such strategy shall be coordinated with and support the goals 
and objectives of the National Action Plan for Women of Afghanistan and 
the Afghan National Development Strategy and shall include a defined 
scope and methodology to measure the impact of such assistance.
    (g)(1) Notwithstanding section 303 of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253) and requirements for 
awarding task orders under task and delivery order contracts under 
section 303J of such Act (41 U.S.C. 253j), the Secretary of State may 
award task orders for police training in Afghanistan under current 
Department of State contracts for police training.
    (2) Any task order awarded under paragraph (1) shall be for a 
limited term and shall remain in performance only until a successor 
contract or contracts awarded by the Department of Defense using full 
and open competition have entered into full performance after completion 
of any start-up or transition periods.

                                pakistan

    Sec. 1005. (a) Funds appropriated in this chapter and in prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs under the headings ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'' and ``Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund'' shall be 
made available--
            (1) in a manner that promotes unimpeded access by 
        humanitarian organizations to detainees, internally displaced 
        persons, and other Pakistani civilians adversely affected by the 
        conflict; and
            (2) in accordance with section 620J of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961, and the Secretary of State shall inform 
        relevant Pakistani authorities of the requirements of section 
        620J and of its application, and regularly monitor units of 
        Pakistani security forces that receive United States assistance 
        and the performance of such units.

    (b)(1) Of the funds appropriated in this chapter under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Pakistan, $5,000,000 shall 
be made available through the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and 
Labor, Department of State, for human

[[Page 124 STAT. 2328]]

rights programs in Pakistan, including training of government officials 
and security forces, and assistance for human rights organizations.
    (2) <<NOTE: Deadline. Human rights strategy.>>  Not later than 90 
days after enactment of this Act and prior to the obligation of funds 
under this subsection, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations a human rights strategy in Pakistan 
including the proposed uses of funds.

    (c) Of the funds appropriated in this chapter under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Pakistan, up to $1,500,000 
should be made available to the Department of State and the United 
States Agency for International Development for the lease of aircraft to 
implement programs and conduct oversight in northwestern Pakistan, which 
shall be coordinated under the authority of the United States Chief of 
Mission in Pakistan.

                                  iraq

    Sec. 1006. (a) The uses of aircraft in Iraq purchased or leased with 
funds made available under the headings ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'' and ``Diplomatic and Consular Affairs'' in 
this chapter and in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be coordinated 
under the authority of the United States Chief of Mission in Iraq.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  The terms and conditions of section 
1106(b) of Public Law 111-32 shall apply to funds made available in this 
chapter for assistance for Iraq under the heading ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement''.

    (c) Of the funds appropriated in this chapter and in prior acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' and ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' for 
Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq, up to $300,000,000 may, after 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, be transferred 
between, and merged with, such appropriations for activities related to 
security for civilian led operations in such countries.

                                  haiti

    Sec. 1007. (a) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Funds appropriated in this 
chapter and in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs under the headings 
``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'' that are available for assistance for Haiti may be 
obligated only if the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that prior to the disbursement of funds, representatives 
of the Haitian national, provincial or local government, local 
communities and civil society organizations, as appropriate, will be 
consulted and participate in the design of programs, projects, and 
activities, and following such disbursement will participate in 
implementation and oversight, and progress will be measured against 
specific benchmarks.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Funds appropriated in this chapter 
under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' may be made available for 
assistance for the Government of Haiti only if the Secretary of State 
determines

[[Page 124 STAT. 2329]]

and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
Haiti is--
            (A) cooperating with United States reconstruction and reform 
        efforts; and
            (B) demonstrating a commitment to accountability by removing 
        corrupt officials, implementing fiscal transparency and other 
        necessary reforms of government institutions, and facilitating 
        active public engagement in governance and oversight of public 
        resources.

    (2) If at any time after making the determination required in 
paragraph (1) the Secretary receives credible information that the 
factual basis for making such determination no longer exists, the 
Secretary should suspend assistance and promptly inform the relevant 
Haitian authorities that such assistance is suspended until sufficient 
factual basis exists to support the determination.
    (c)(1) Funds appropriated in this chapter for bilateral assistance 
for Haiti may be provided as direct budget support to the central 
Government of Haiti only if the Secretary of State reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Government of the United States 
and the Government of Haiti have agreed, in writing, to clear and 
achievable goals and objectives for the use of such funds, and have 
established mechanisms within each implementing agency to ensure that 
such funds are used for the purposes for which they were intended.
    (2) The Secretary should suspend any such direct budget support to 
an implementing agency if the Secretary has credible evidence of misuse 
of such funds by any such agency.
    (3) Any such direct budget support shall be subject to prior 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
    (d) Funds appropriated in this chapter that are made available for 
assistance for Haiti shall be made available, to the maximum extent 
practicable, in a manner that emphasizes the participation and 
leadership of Haitian women and directly improves the security, economic 
and social well-being, and political status of Haitian women and girls.
    (e) Funds appropriated in this chapter may be made available for 
assistance for Haiti notwithstanding any other provision of law, except 
for section 620J of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and provisions of 
this chapter.

                            haiti debt relief

    Sec. 1008. (a) For an additional amount for ``Contribution to the 
Inter-American Development Bank'', ``Contribution to the International 
Development Association'', and ``Contribution to the International Fund 
for Agricultural Development'', to cancel Haiti's existing debts and 
repayments on disbursements from loans committed prior to January 12, 
2010, and for the United States share of an increase in the resources of 
the Fund for Special Operations of the Inter-American Development Bank, 
to the extent separately authorized in this chapter, in furtherance of 
providing debt relief for Haiti in view of the Cancun Declaration of 
March 21, 2010, a total of $212,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2012.
    (b) Up to $40,000,000 of the amounts appropriated under the heading 
``Department of the Treasury, Debt Restructuring'' in prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign

[[Page 124 STAT. 2330]]

operations, and related programs may be used to cancel Haiti's existing 
debts and repayments on disbursements from loans committed prior to 
January 12, 2010, to the Inter-American Development Bank, the 
International Development Association, and the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development, and for the United States share of an increase 
in the resources of the Fund for Special Operations of the Inter-
American Development Bank in furtherance of providing debt relief to 
Haiti in view of the Cancun Declaration of March 21, 2010.

                       haiti debt relief authority

    Sec. 1009.  The Inter-American Development Bank Act, Public Law 86-
147, as amended (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.), is further amended by adding at 
the end thereof the following new section:
``SEC. 40. <<NOTE: 22 USC 283z-12.>>  AUTHORITY TO VOTE FOR AND 
                      CONTRIBUTE TO AN INCREASE IN RESOURCES OF 
                      THE FUND FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS; PROVIDING 
                      DEBT RELIEF TO HAITI.

    ``(a) Vote Authorized.--In accordance with section 5 of this Act, 
the United States Governor of the Bank is authorized to vote in favor of 
a resolution to increase the resources of the Fund for Special 
Operations up to $479,000,000, in furtherance of providing debt relief 
for Haiti in view of the Cancun Declaration of March 21, 2010, which 
provides that:
            ``(1) Haiti's debts to the Fund for Special Operations are 
        to be cancelled;
            ``(2) Haiti's remaining local currency conversion 
        obligations to the Fund for Special Operations are to be 
        cancelled;
            ``(3) undisbursed balances of existing loans of the Fund for 
        Special Operations to Haiti are to be converted to grants; and
            ``(4) the Fund for Special Operations is to make available 
        significant and immediate grant financing to Haiti as well as 
        appropriate resources to other countries remaining as borrowers 
        within the Fund for Special Operations, consistent with 
        paragraph 6 of the Cancun Declaration of March 21, 2010.

    ``(b) Contribution Authority.--To the extent and in the amount 
provided in advance in appropriations Acts the United States Governor of 
the Bank may, on behalf of the United States and in accordance with 
section 5 of this Act, contribute up to $252,000,000 to the Fund for 
Special Operations, which will provide for debt relief of:
            ``(1) up to $240,000,000 to the Fund for Special Operations;
            ``(2) up to $8,000,000 to the International Fund For 
        Agricultural Development (IFAD); and
            ``(3) up to $4,000,000 for the International Development 
        Association (IDA).

    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--To pay for the contribution 
authorized under subsection (b), there are authorized to be 
appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, for payment by the 
Secretary of the Treasury $212,000,000, for the United States 
contribution to the Fund for Special Operations.''.

                                 mexico

    Sec. 1010. (a) <<NOTE: Applicability. Determination.>>  For purposes 
of funds appropriated in this chapter and in prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department

[[Page 124 STAT. 2331]]

of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' that are made 
available for assistance for Mexico, the provisions of paragraphs (1) 
through (3) of section 7045(e) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2009 (division H of 
Public Law 111-8) shall apply and the report required in paragraph (1) 
shall be based on a determination by the Secretary of State of 
compliance with each of the requirements in paragraph (1)(A) through 
(D).

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Funds appropriated in this chapter under the 
heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' that are 
available for assistance for Mexico may be made available only after the 
Secretary of State submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
detailing a coordinated, multi-year, interagency strategy to address the 
causes of drug-related violence and other organized criminal activity in 
Central and South America, Mexico, and the Caribbean, which shall 
describe--
            (1) the United States multi-year strategy for the region, 
        including a description of key challenges in the source, 
        transit, and demand zones; the key objectives of the strategy; 
        and a detailed description of outcome indicators for measuring 
        progress toward such objectives;
            (2) the integration of diplomatic, administration of 
        justice, law enforcement, civil society, economic development, 
        demand reduction, and other assistance to achieve such 
        objectives;
            (3) progress in phasing out law enforcement activities of 
        the militaries of each recipient country, as applicable; and
            (4) governmental efforts to investigate and prosecute 
        violations of internationally recognized human rights.

    (c) Of the funds appropriated in this chapter under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', up to $5,000,000 may be made 
available for armored vehicles and other emergency diplomatic security 
support for United States Government personnel in Mexico.

                               el salvador

    Sec. 1011.  Of the funds appropriated in this chapter under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $25,000,000 shall be made available 
for necessary expenses for emergency relief and reconstruction 
assistance for El Salvador related to Hurricane/Tropical Storm Ida.

                    democratic republic of the congo

    Sec. 1012.  Of the funds appropriated in this chapter under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $15,000,000 shall be made available 
for necessary expenses for emergency security and humanitarian 
assistance for civilians, particularly women and girls, in the eastern 
region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

                  international scientific cooperation

    Sec. 1013.  Funds appropriated in prior Acts making appropriations 
for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
that are made available for science and technology centers in the former 
Soviet Union may be used to support productive, non-military projects 
that engage scientists and engineers who have no weapons background, but 
whose competence could otherwise

[[Page 124 STAT. 2332]]

be applied to weapons development, provided such projects are executed 
through existing science and technology centers and notwithstanding 
sections 503 and 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102-511), 
and following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

                  international renewable energy agency

    Sec. 1014. For <<NOTE: 22 USC 290p.>>  fiscal year 2011 and 
thereafter, the President is authorized to accept the statute of, and to 
maintain membership of the United States in, the International Renewable 
Energy Agency, and the United States' assessed contributions to maintain 
such membership may be paid from funds appropriated for ``Contributions 
to International Organizations''.

                  office of inspector general personnel

    Sec. 1015. (a) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Funds appropriated in this 
chapter for the United States Agency for International Development 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) may be made available to contract with 
United States citizens for personal services when the Inspector General 
determines that the personnel resources of the OIG are otherwise 
insufficient.
            (1) Not more than 5 percent of the OIG personnel (determined 
        on a full-time equivalent basis), as of any given date, are 
        serving under personal services contracts.
            (2) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Contracts under this paragraph 
        shall not exceed a term of 2 years unless the Inspector General 
        determines that exceptional circumstances justify an extension 
        of up to 1 additional year, and contractors under this paragraph 
        shall not be considered employees of the Federal Government for 
        purposes of title 5, United States Code, or members of the 
        Foreign Service for purposes of title 22, United States Code.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>>  The Inspector General may waive 
subsections (a) through (d) of section 8344, and subsections (a) through 
(e) of section 8468 of title 5, United States Code, and subsections (a) 
through (d) of section 4064 of title 22, United States Code, on behalf 
of any re-employed annuitant serving in a position within the OIG to 
facilitate the assignment of persons to positions in Iraq, Pakistan, 
Afghanistan, and Haiti or to positions vacated by members of the Foreign 
Service assigned to those countries.

    (2) <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  The authority provided in paragraph 
(1) shall be exercised on a case-by-case basis for positions for which 
there is difficulty recruiting or retaining a qualified employee or to 
address a temporary emergency hiring need, individuals employed by the 
OIG under this paragraph shall not be considered employees for purposes 
of subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, or 
chapter 84 of such title, and the authorities of the Inspector General 
under this paragraph shall terminate on October 1, 2012.

                      authority to reprogram funds

    Sec. 1016. Of <<NOTE: President. Certification. Reports.>>  the 
funds appropriated by this chapter for assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq 
and Pakistan, up to $100,000,000 may be made available pursuant to the 
authority of section 451 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, for assistance

[[Page 124 STAT. 2333]]

in the Middle East and South Asia regions if the President finds, in 
addition to the requirements of section 451 and certifies and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations, that exercising the authority of this 
section is necessary to protect the national security interests of the 
United States: <<NOTE: Consultation. Notification.>>  Provided, That the 
Secretary of State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
prior to the reprogramming of such funds, which shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That the funding limitation otherwise applicable to 
section 451 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
this section: <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  Provided further, That the 
authority of this section shall expire upon enactment of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2011.

        special inspector general for afghanistan reconstruction

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 1017. (a) Of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Department of State, Administration of Foreign Affairs, Office of 
Inspector General'' and authorized to be transferred to the Special 
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction in title XI of Public 
Law 111-32, $7,200,000 are rescinded.
    (b) For an additional amount for ``Department of State, 
Administration of Foreign Affairs, Office of Inspector General'' which 
shall be available for the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction for reconstruction oversight in Afghanistan, $7,200,000, 
and shall remain available until September 30, 2011.

                               CHAPTER 11

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                      highway traffic safety grants

                          (highway trust fund)

                         (including rescission)

    Of the amounts provided for Safety Belt Performance Grants in Public 
Law 111-117, $15,000,000 shall be available to pay for expenses 
necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, with respect to 
traffic and highway safety under subtitle C of title X of Public Law 
109-59 and chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United 
States Code, and for the planning or execution of programs authorized 
under section 403 of title 23, United States Code: Provided, That such 
funds shall be available until September 30, 2011, and shall be in 
addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations in 
fiscal year 2011.
    Of the amounts made available for Safety Belt Performance Grants 
under section 406 of title 23, United States Code, $25,000,000 in 
unobligated balances are permanently rescinded: Provided, That section 
3002 shall not apply to the amounts under this heading.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2334]]

             consumer assistance to recycle and save program

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available for the Consumer Assistance to Recycle 
and Save Program, $44,000,000 in unobligated balances are rescinded.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Community Development Fund'', for 
necessary expenses related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, and 
restoration of infrastructure, housing, and economic revitalization in 
areas affected by severe storms and flooding from March 2010 through May 
2010 for which the President declared a major disaster covering an 
entire State or States with more than 20 counties declared major 
disasters under title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act of 1974, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, for activities authorized under title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-383): <<NOTE: State 
and local governments.>>  Provided, That funds shall be awarded directly 
to the State or unit of general local government at the discretion of 
the Secretary: <<NOTE: Plans.>>  Provided further, That prior to the 
obligation of funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary 
detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria for 
eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure: Provided further, That funds 
provided under this heading may be used by a State or locality as a 
matching requirement, share, or contribution for any other Federal 
program: Provided further, That such funds may not be used for 
activities reimbursable by, or for which funds are made available by, 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers: 
Provided further, That funds allocated under this heading shall not 
adversely affect the amount of any formula assistance received by a 
State or subdivision thereof under the Community Development Fund: 
Provided further, That a State or subdivision thereof may use up to 5 
percent of its allocation for administrative costs: <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority.>>  Provided further, That in administering the funds under 
this heading, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, 
or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds 
or guarantees (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a request 
by a State or subdivision thereof explaining why such waiver is required 
to facilitate the use of such funds or guarantees, if the Secretary 
finds that such waiver would not be inconsistent with the overall 
purpose of title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974: <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication. Deadline.>>  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register any 
waiver of any statute or regulation that the Secretary administers 
pursuant to title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
no later than 5 days before the effective date of such 
waiver: <<NOTE: States. Deadline.>>  Provided

[[Page 124 STAT. 2335]]

further, That the Secretary shall obligate to a State or subdivision 
thereof not less than 50 percent of the funding provided under this 
heading within 90 days after the enactment of this Act.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For an additional amount, in addition to amounts provided elsewhere 
in this Act, for ``Economic Development Assistance Programs'', to carry 
out planning, technical assistance and other assistance under section 
209, and consistent with section 703(b), of the Public Works and 
Economic Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3149, 3233), in States affected by 
the incidents related to the discharge of oil that began in 2010 in 
connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore 
drilling unit Deepwater Horizon, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount, in addition to amounts provided elsewhere 
in this Act, for ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'', $13,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for responding to economic impacts 
on fishermen and fishery-dependent businesses: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  the amounts appropriated herein are not 
available unless the Secretary of Commerce determines that resources 
provided under other authorities and appropriations including by the 
responsible parties under the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. 2701, et 
seq., are not sufficient to respond to economic impacts on fishermen and 
fishery-dependent business following an incident related to a spill of 
national significance declared under the National Contingency Plan 
provided for under section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9605).

    For an additional amount, in addition to amounts provided elsewhere 
in this Act, for ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'', for 
activities undertaken including scientific investigations and sampling 
as a result of the incidents related to the discharge of oil and the use 
of oil dispersants that began in 2010 in connection with the explosion 
on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon, 
$7,000,000, to remain available until expended. These activities may be 
funded through the provision of grants to universities, colleges and 
other research partners through extramural research funding.

[[Page 124 STAT. 2336]]

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', Food and 
Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, for food 
safety monitoring and response activities in connection with the 
incidents related to the discharge of oil that began in 2010 in 
connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore 
drilling unit Deepwater Horizon, $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Departmental Offices

                         Office of the Secretary

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries 
and Expenses'' for increased inspections, enforcement, investigations, 
environmental and engineering studies, and other activities related to 
emergency offshore oil spill incidents in the Gulf of Mexico, 
$29,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred by the Secretary to any other account in the 
Department of the Interior to carry out the purposes provided herein.

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                            Legal Activities

             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal 
Activities'', $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
litigation expenses resulting from incidents related to the discharge of 
oil that began in 2010 in connection with the explosion on, and sinking 
of, the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon.

                     ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For an <<NOTE: Study.>>  additional amount for ``Science and 
Technology'' for a study on the potential human and environmental risks 
and impacts of the release of crude oil and the application of 
dispersants, surface washing agents, bioremediation agents, and other 
mitigation measures listed in the National Contingency Plan Product List 
(40 C.F.R. Part 300 Subpart J), as appropriate, $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the study shall be performed at 
the direction of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, in coordination with the Secretary of

[[Page 124 STAT. 2337]]

Commerce and the Secretary of the Interior: Provided further, That the 
study may be funded through the provision of grants to universities and 
colleges through extramural research funding.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

                            deepwater horizon

    Sec. 2001.  Section 6002(b) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
U.S.C. 2752) is amended in the second sentence:
            (1) by inserting ``: (1)'' before ``may obtain an advance'' 
        and after ``the Coast Guard'';
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  by striking 
        ``advance. Amounts'' and inserting the following: ``advance; (2) 
        in the case of discharge of oil that began in 2010 in connection 
        with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore 
        drilling unit Deepwater Horizon, may, without further 
        appropriation, obtain one or more advances from the Oil Spill 
        Liability Trust Fund as needed, up to a maximum of $100,000,000 
        for each advance, the total amount of all advances not to exceed 
        the amounts available under section 9509(c)(2) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9509(c)(2)), and within 7 days 
        of each advance, shall notify Congress of the amount advanced 
        and the facts and circumstances necessitating the advance; and 
        (3) amounts''.


                   prohibition on fines and liability


    Sec. 2002. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to levy against any person any fine, or to hold any person liable 
for construction or renovation work performed by the person, in any 
State under the final rule entitled ``Lead; Renovation, Repair, and 
Painting Program; Lead Hazard Information Pamphlet; Notice of 
Availability; Final Rule'' (73 Fed. Reg. 21692 (April 22, 2008)), and 
the final rule entitled ``Lead; Amendment to the Opt-out and 
Recordkeeping Provisions in the Renovation, Repair, and Painting 
Program'' signed by the Administrator on April 22, 2010.


                              right-of-way


    Sec. 2003.  (a) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior shall--
            (1) not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, amend Right-of-Way Grants No. NVN-49781/IDI-26446/NVN-
        85211/NVN-85210 of the Bureau of Land Management to shift the 
        200-foot right-of-way for the 500-kilovolt transmission line 
        project to the alignment depicted on the maps entitled 
        ``Southwest Intertie Project'' and dated December 10, 2009, and 
        May 21, 2010, and approve the construction, operation and 
        maintenance plans of the project; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Notice.>>  not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, issue a notice to proceed with 
        construction of the project in accordance with the amended 
        grants and approved plans described in paragraph (1).

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Energy may provide or facilitate federal financing for the project 
described in subsection (a) under the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 123 Stat. 115) or the Energy Policy Act 
of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801 et seq.), based

[[Page 124 STAT. 2338]]

on the comprehensive reviews and consultations performed by the 
Secretary of the Interior.


             funding for environmental and fisheries impacts


    Sec. 2004.  (1) Fisheries Disaster Relief.--For an additional 
amount, in addition to other amounts provided in this Act for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, $15,000,000 to be 
available to provide fisheries disaster relief under section 312 of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1861a) related to a commercial fishery failure due to a fishery resource 
disaster in the Gulf of Mexico that resulted from the Deepwater Horizon 
oil discharge.
            (2) Expanded stock assessment of fisheries.--For an 
        additional amount, in addition to other amounts provided in this 
        Act for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
        $10,000,000 to conduct an expanded stock assessment of the 
        fisheries of the Gulf of Mexico. Such expanded stock assessment 
        shall include an assessment of the commercial and recreational 
        catch and biological sampling, observer programs, data 
        management and processing activities, the conduct of 
        assessments, and follow-up evaluations of such fisheries.
            (3) Ecosystem services impacts study.--For an additional 
        amount, in addition to other amounts provided for the Department 
        of Commerce, $1,000,000 to be available for the National Academy 
        of Sciences to conduct a study of the long-term ecosystem 
        service impacts of the Deepwater Horizon oil discharge. Such 
        study shall assess long-term costs to the public of lost water 
        filtration, hunting, and fishing (commercial and recreational), 
        and other ecosystem services associated with the Gulf of Mexico.
            (4) In general.--Of the <<NOTE: Rescission.>>  amounts 
        appropriated or made available under division B, title I of 
        Public Law 111-117 that remain unobligated as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act under Procurement, Acquisition, and 
        Construction for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration, $26,000,000 of the amounts appropriated are 
        hereby rescinded.

                                TITLE III

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                          availability of funds

    Sec. 3001  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                          emergency designation

    Sec. 3002.  Unless otherwise specified, each amount in this Act is 
designated as an emergency requirement and necessary to meet emergency 
needs pursuant to sections 403(a) and 423(b) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th 
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
    Sec. 3003. (a) <<NOTE: Payments.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for fiscal year 2010 only, all funds received from 
sales, bonuses, royalties, and rentals under the Geothermal Steam Act of 
1970

[[Page 124 STAT. 2339]]

(30 U.S.C. Sec. Sec. 1001 et seq.) shall be deposited in the Treasury, 
of which--
            (1) 50 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to make payments to States within the boundaries of 
        which the leased land and geothermal resources are located;
            (2) 25 percent shall be used by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to make payments to the counties within the boundaries 
        of which the leased land or geothermal resources are located; 
        and
            (3) 25 percent shall be deposited in miscellaneous receipts.

    (b) Section 3002 shall not apply to this section.
    Sec. 3004. (a) Public Law 111-88, the Interior, Environment, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, is amended under the 
heading <<NOTE: 123 Stat. 2922.>>  ``Office of the Special Trustee for 
American Indians'' by--
            (1) striking ``$185,984,000'' and inserting 
        ``$176,984,000''; and
            (2) striking ``$56,536,000'' and inserting ``$47,536,000''.

    (b) Section 3002 shall not apply to the amounts in this section.
    Sec. 3005.  Section 502(c) of the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 
1998 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 105-312) is amended by striking 
``2008'' and inserting ``2011''.
    Sec. 3006.  For fiscal years 2010 and 2011--
            (1) the National Park Service Recreation Fee Program account 
        may be available for the cost of adjustments and changes within 
        the original scope of contracts for National Park Service 
        projects funded by Public Law 111-5 and for associated 
        administrative costs when no funds are otherwise available for 
        such purposes;
            (2) notwithstanding section 430 of division E of Public Law 
        111-8 and section 444 of Public Law 111-88, the Secretary of the 
        Interior may utilize unobligated balances for adjustments and 
        changes within the original scope of projects funded through 
        division A, title VII, of Public Law 111-5 and for associated 
        administrative costs when no funds are otherwise available;
            (3) the Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that any 
        unobligated balances utilized pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be 
        derived from the bureau and account for which the project was 
        funded in Public Law 111-5; and
            (4) <<NOTE: Consultation.>>  the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
        making any charges authorized by this section.

    Sec. 3007. (a) Section 205(d) of the Federal Land Transaction 
Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2304(d)) is amended by striking ``10 years'' 
and inserting ``11 years''.
    (b) Section 3002 shall not apply to this section.
    Sec. 3008.  Of <<NOTE: Michigan.>>  the amounts appropriated for the 
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program under subpart 1 
of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3750 et seq.) under the heading ``state and local law 
enforcement assistance'' under the heading ``Office of Justice 
Programs'' under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Activities'' under title II of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 
(Public Law 111-8; 123 Stat. 579), at the discretion of the Attorney 
General, the amounts to be made available to Genesee County, Michigan 
for assistance for individuals

[[Page 124 STAT. 2340]]

transitioning from prison in Genesee County, Michigan pursuant to the 
joint statement of managers accompanying that Act may be made available 
to My Brother's Keeper of Genesee County, Michigan to provide assistance 
for individuals transitioning from prison in Genesee County, Michigan.

    Sec. 3009.  Section 159(b)(2)(C) of title I of division A of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 (49 U.S.C. 24305 note) is amended 
by striking clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting the following:
                          ``(i) requiring inspections of any container 
                      containing a firearm or ammunition; and
                          ``(ii) the temporary suspension of firearm 
                      carriage service if credible intelligence 
                      information indicates a threat related to the 
                      national rail system or specific routes or 
                      trains.''.


  public availability of contractor integrity and performance database


    Sec. 3010. Section <<NOTE: Web posting.>>  872(e)(1) of the Clean 
Contracting Act of 2008 (subtitle G of title VIII of Public Law 110-417; 
41 U.S.C. 417b(e)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
``In addition, the Administrator shall post all such information, 
excluding past performance reviews, on a publicly available Internet 
website.''.


                 assessments on guantanamo bay detainees


    Sec. 3011.  (a) Submission of Information Related to Disposition 
Decisions.--Not later <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  than 45 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the participants of the interagency review of 
Guantanamo Bay detainees conducted pursuant to Executive Order 13492 (10 
U.S.C. 801 note), shall fully inform the congressional intelligence 
committees concerning the basis for the disposition decisions reached by 
the Guantanamo Review Task Force, and shall provide to the congressional 
intelligence committees--
            (1) <<NOTE: Analyses.>>  the written threat analyses 
        prepared on each detainee by the Guantanamo Review Task Force 
        established pursuant to Executive Order 13492; and
            (2) access to the intelligence information that formed the 
        basis of any such specific assessments or threat analyses.

    (b) Future Submissions.--In addition <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  to the 
analyses, assessments, and information required under subsection (a) and 
not later than 10 days after the date that a threat assessment described 
in subsection (a) is disseminated, the Director of National Intelligence 
shall provide to the congressional intelligence committees--
            (1) any new threat assessment prepared by any element of the 
        intelligence community of a Guantanamo Bay detainee who remains 
        in detention or is pending release or transfer; and
            (2) access to the intelligence information that formed the 
        basis of such threat assessment.

    (c) Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 3(7) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 401a(7)).
    Sec. 3012. Of <<NOTE: Georgia.>>  the amounts appropriated for the 
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program under subpart 1 
of

[[Page 124 STAT. 2341]]

part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968 (42 U.S.C. 3750 et seq.) under the heading ``state and local law 
enforcement assistance'' under the heading ``Office of Justice 
Programs'' under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Activities'' under title II of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 
(Public Law 111-8; 123 Stat. 579), at the discretion of the Attorney 
General, the amounts to be made available to the Marcus Institute, 
Atlanta, Georgia, to provide remediation for the potential consequences 
of childhood abuse and neglect, pursuant to the joint statement of 
managers accompanying that Act, may be made available to the Georgia 
State University Center for Healthy Development, Atlanta, Georgia.


                        coastal impact assistance


    Sec. 3013. Section 31 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1356a) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Emergency Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--In response to a spill of national 
        significance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 
        et seq.), at the request of a producing State or coastal 
        political subdivision and notwithstanding the requirements of 
        part 12 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor 
        regulation), the Secretary may immediately disburse funds 
        allocated under this section for 1 or more individual projects 
        that are--
                    ``(A) consistent with subsection (d); and
                    ``(B) specifically designed to respond to the spill 
                of national significance.
            ``(2) Approval by secretary.--The Secretary may, in the sole 
        discretion of the Secretary, approve, on a project by project 
        basis, the immediate disbursal of the funds under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  State requirements.--
                    ``(A) Additional information.--If the Secretary 
                approves a project for funding under this subsection 
                that is included in a plan previously approved under 
                subsection (c), not later than 90 days after the date of 
                the funding approval, the producing State or coastal 
                political subdivision shall submit to the Secretary any 
                additional information that the Secretary determines to 
                be necessary to ensure that the project is in compliance 
                with subsection (d).
                    ``(B) Amendment to plan.--If the Secretary approves 
                a project for funding under this subsection that is not 
                included in a plan previously approved under subsection 
                (c), not later than 90 days after the date of the 
                funding approval, the producing State or coastal 
                political subdivision shall submit to the Secretary for 
                approval an amendment to the plan that includes any 
                projects funded under paragraph (1), as well as any 
                information about such projects that the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary to ensure that the project is 
                in compliance with subsection (d).
                    ``(C) Limitation.--If a producing State or coastal 
                political subdivision does not submit the additional 
                information or amendments to the plan required by this 
                paragraph, or if, based on the information submitted by 
                the Secretary

[[Page 124 STAT. 2342]]

                determines that the project is not in compliance with 
                subsection (d), by the deadlines specified in this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall not disburse any 
                additional funds to the producing State or the coastal 
                political subdivisions until the date on which the 
                additional information or amendment to the plan has been 
                approved by the Secretary.''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2010''.

    Approved July 29, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4899:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-188 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Mar. 24, considered and passed House.
            May 24-27, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            July 1, House concurred in Senate amendment with an 
                amendment.
            July 22, Senate considered and rejected House amendment.
            July 27, House receded and concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>