Public Law 109-108
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for Science, the Departments of State, Justice, 
and Commerce, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
    30, 2006, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 22, 2005 -  [H.R. 
                                2862]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Science, State, 
Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.>> That 
the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2006, and for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE <<NOTE: Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2006.>> I--
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $124,456,000, of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed 45 permanent positions and 46 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $11,821,000 shall be expended for the Department 
Leadership Program exclusive of augmentation that occurred in these 
offices in fiscal year 2005: Provided further, That not to exceed 26 
permanent positions, 21 full-time equivalent workyears and $3,480,000 
shall be expended for the Office of Legislative Affairs: Provided 
further, That not to exceed 17 permanent positions, 22 full-time 
equivalent workyears and $2,764,000 shall be expended for the Office of 
Public Affairs: Provided further, That the Offices of Legislative 
Affairs and Public Affairs may utilize, on a non-reimbursable basis 
details of career employees within the ceilings provided for the Office 
of Legislative Affairs and the Office of Public Affairs: Provided 
further, That not less than $500,000 shall be used to contract with an 
independent party to carry out a privacy assessment.


                 justice information sharing technology


    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, including 
planning, development, deployment and Departmental direction, 
$125,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That, of the 
funds available $10,000,000 is for the unified financial management 
system to be administered by the Unified Financial Management System 
Executive Council: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$20,000,000 is unavailable for obligation until the Department Chief 
Information Officer submits the plan described in section 110 of this 
title.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2291]]

          narrowband communications/integrated wireless network


    For the costs of conversion to narrowband communications, including 
the cost for operation and maintenance of Land Mobile Radio legacy 
systems, $90,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007: 
Provided, That the Attorney General shall transfer to this account all 
funds made available to the Department of Justice for the purchase of 
portable and mobile radios: Provided further, That any transfer made 
under the preceding proviso shall be subject to section 605 of this Act.


                    administrative review and appeals


    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and clemency 
petitions and immigration-related activities, $215,685,000.


                            detention trustee


    For necessary expenses of the Federal Detention Trustee, 
$1,222,000,000, of which $45,000,000 shall be derived from prior year 
unobligated balances from funds previously appropriated, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Trustee shall be 
responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation 
System and for overseeing housing related to such detention: Provided 
further, That any unobligated balances available in prior years from the 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Federal Prisoner Detention'' 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation under the 
heading ``Detention Trustee'' and shall be available until expended.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$68,801,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character.

                     United States Parole Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $11,000,000.

                            Legal Activities


             salaries and expenses, general legal activities


    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the District 
of Columbia, $661,959,000, of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $1,000 
shall be available to the United States National Central Bureau, 
INTERPOL, for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 105 of this Act, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional

[[Page 119 STAT. 2292]]

funding for litigation activities of the Civil Division, the Attorney 
General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries and Expenses, General 
Legal Activities'' from available appropriations for the current fiscal 
year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $6,333,000, to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.


                salaries and expenses, antitrust division


    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $144,451,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $116,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall 
be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at not more than $28,451,000.


             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys


    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,600,000,000: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to 
exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $1,500,000 shall 
only be available to continue ``Operation Streetsweeper''.


                    united states trustee system fund


    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $214,402,000, to remain available until expended and to be 
derived from the United States Trustee System Fund: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to the Fund shall 
be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds due 
depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $214,402,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
589a(b) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the Fund estimated 
at $0.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2293]]

       salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission


    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $1,320,000.

                     United States Marshals Service


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$793,031,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses; of which $4,000,000 for 
information technology systems shall remain available until expended; 
and of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for the costs 
of courthouse security equipment, including furnishings, relocations, 
and telephone systems and cabling, and shall remain available until 
expended.


                              construction


    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized by the 
United States Marshals Service in United States courthouses and Federal 
buildings, $8,883,000, to remain available until expended.


                     fees and expenses of witnesses


    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private counsel 
expenses, including advances, such sums as are necessary, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $10,000,000 may 
be made available for construction of buildings for protected witness 
safesites: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made 
available for the purchase and maintenance of armored vehicles for 
transportation of protected witnesses: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $9,000,000 may be made available for the purchase, installation, 
maintenance and upgrade of secure telecommunications equipment and a 
secure automated information network to store and retrieve the 
identities and locations of protected witnesses.


           salaries and expenses, community relations service


    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$9,659,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 105 of this Act, upon 
a determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for conflict resolution and violence 
prevention activities of the Community Relations Service, the Attorney 
General may transfer such amounts to the Community Relations Service, 
from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2294]]

                         assets forfeiture fund


    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(B), (F), and (G), 
$21,468,000, to be derived from the Department of Justice Assets 
Forfeiture Fund.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement


                 interagency crime and drug enforcement


    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking and affiliated money laundering organizations not otherwise 
provided for, to include inter-governmental agreements with State and 
local law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking, 
$489,440,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from appropriations under 
this heading may be used under authorities available to the 
organizations reimbursed from this appropriation.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States; including purchase for police-type use of not to exceed 3,868 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 3,039 will be for replacement only; 
and not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 530C, $5,728,737,000; of 
which not to exceed $150,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
of which $2,288,897,000 shall be for counterterrorism investigations, 
foreign counterintelligence, and other activities related to our 
national security; and of which not to exceed $25,000,000 is authorized 
to be made available for making advances for expenses arising out of 
contractual or reimbursable agreements with State and local law 
enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative activities related to 
violent crime, terrorism, organized crime, gang-related crime, 
cybercrime, and drug investigations: Provided, That not to exceed 
$205,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.


                              construction


    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of Federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $37,608,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $15,108,000 shall be available 
for the planning, design, and construction of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Center for Integrated Training and Technology Transfer in 
Redstone Arsenal: Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be available 
for a chemical and biological evidence handling and storage facility to 
be co-located with comparable facilities in existence for sample, 
handling and receipt of hazardous material by the Department of the 
Army: Provided further, That $10,000,000 shall be available for 
equipment

[[Page 119 STAT. 2295]]

and associated costs for a permanent central records complex in 
Frederick County, Virginia.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 530C; expenses for 
conducting drug education and training programs, including travel and 
related expenses for participants in such programs and the distribution 
of items of token value that promote the goals of such programs; and 
purchase of not to exceed 1,043 passenger motor vehicles, of which 937 
will be for replacement only, for police-type use, $1,686,457,000; of 
which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

           Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, including the purchase of not to exceed 822 vehicles for 
police-type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only; not to 
exceed $40,000 for official reception and representation expenses; for 
training of State and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the training and 
acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; 
and for provision of laboratory assistance to State and local law 
enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $923,613,000, of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of 
attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That no 
funds appropriated herein shall be available for salaries or 
administrative expenses in connection with consolidating or 
centralizing, within the Department of Justice, the records, or any 
portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of firearms maintained 
by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated herein shall be used to pay administrative expenses or the 
compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to 
implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the 
definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item 
from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 1, 1994: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be available 
to investigate or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds 
shall be available to investigate and act upon applications filed by 
corporations for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 
925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Provided further, That no funds 
made available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer the 
functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives to other agencies or Departments in fiscal year 
2006: Provided further, <<NOTE: 18 USC 923 note.>> That no funds 
appropriated under this or any other Act

[[Page 119 STAT. 2296]]

with respect to any fiscal year may be used to disclose part or all of 
the contents of the Firearms Trace System database maintained by the 
National Trace Center of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives or any information required to be kept by licensees pursuant 
to section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, or required to be 
reported pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (7) of such section 923(g), to 
anyone other than a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency or a 
prosecutor solely in connection with and for use in a bona fide criminal 
investigation or prosecution and then only such information as pertains 
to the geographic jurisdiction of the law enforcement agency requesting 
the disclosure and not for use in any civil action or proceeding other 
than an action or proceeding commenced by the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or a review of such an action or 
proceeding, to enforce the provisions of chapter 44 of such title, and 
all such data shall be immune from legal process and shall not be 
subject to subpoena or other discovery, shall be inadmissible in 
evidence, and shall not be used, relied on, or disclosed in any manner, 
nor shall testimony or other evidence be permitted based upon such data, 
in any civil action pending on or filed after the effective date of this 
Act in any State (including the District of Columbia) or Federal court 
or in any administrative proceeding other than a proceeding commenced by 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to enforce the 
provisions of that chapter, or a review of such an action or proceeding; 
except that this proviso shall not be construed to prevent the 
disclosure of statistical information concerning total production, 
importation, and exportation by each licensed importer (as defined in 
section 921(a)(9) of such title) and licensed manufacturer (as defined 
in section 921(a)(10) of such title): Provided further, That no funds 
made available by this or any other Act shall be expended to promulgate 
or implement any rule requiring a physical inventory of any business 
licensed under section 923 of title 18, United States Code: Provided 
further, That no funds under this Act may be used to electronically 
retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or 
any personal identification code: Provided further, That no funds 
authorized or made available under this or any other Act may be used to 
deny any application for a license under section 923 of title 18, United 
States Code, or renewal of such a license due to a lack of business 
activity, provided that the applicant is otherwise eligible to receive 
such a license, and is eligible to report business income or to claim an 
income tax deduction for business expenses under the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
the expenses necessary for site selection, architectural design, site 
preparation and the development of a total cost estimate for the 
construction of a permanent site for the National Center for Explosives 
Training and Research: Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That 
any funds remaining shall be applied to the construction of the Center: 
Provided further, That the Director of the ATF, when considering site 
selection shall consider a site collocated with other law enforcement 
and Federal Government entities that provide similar training and 
research.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2297]]

                          Federal Prison System


                          salaries and expenses


    For expenses necessary of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, including purchase (not to exceed 768, of 
which 701 are for replacement only) and hire of law enforcement and 
passenger motor vehicles, and for the provision of technical assistance 
and advice on corrections related issues to foreign governments, 
$4,892,649,000: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 250a.>> That the Attorney 
General may transfer to the Health Resources and Services Administration 
such amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures by that 
Administration for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions: Provided further, That the Director of the 
Federal Prison System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a 
fiscal agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the 
amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
Federal Prison System: Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available 
for necessary operations until September 30, 2007: Provided further, 
That, of the amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other 
expenses authorized by section 501(c) of the Refugee Education 
Assistance Act of 1980, for the care and security in the United States 
of Cuban and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Federal Prison System may accept donated property and services 
relating to the operation of the prison card program from a not-for-
profit entity which has operated such program in the past 
notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-profit entity furnishes 
services under contracts to the Federal Prison System relating to the 
operation of pre-release services, halfway houses or other custodial 
facilities.


                        buildings and facilities


    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$90,112,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$14,000,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate work 
programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
for work performed under this appropriation.


                 federal prison industries, incorporated


    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and

[[Page 119 STAT. 2298]]

to make such contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, 
as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget 
for the current fiscal year for such corporation, including purchase 
(not to exceed five for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles.


   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated


    Not to exceed $3,365,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which such accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or 
produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other property 
belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

                    Office on Violence Against Women


       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs


    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse 
Act of 1990 (``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other 
Tools to End the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 
108-21); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 
(``the 1974 Act''); and the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); $386,502,000, including 
amounts for administrative costs, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That except as otherwise provided by law, not to exceed three 
percent of funds made available under this heading may be used for 
expenses related to evaluation, training and technical assistance: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided--
            (1) $11,897,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
        program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
            (2) $2,287,000 for child abuse training programs for 
        judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by section 
        222 of the 1990 Act;
            (3) $986,000 for grants for televised testimony, as 
        authorized by part N of the 1968 Act;
            (4) $187,308,000 for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act, of which--
                    (A) $5,100,000 shall be for the National Institute 
                of Justice for research and evaluation of violence 
                against women;

[[Page 119 STAT. 2299]]

                    (B) $10,000,000 shall be for the Office of Juvenile 
                Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Safe Start 
                Program, as authorized by the 1974 Act; and
                    (C) $15,000,000 shall be for transitional housing 
                assistance grants for victims of domestic violence, 
                stalking or sexual assault as authorized by Public Law 
                108-21;
            (5) $63,075,000 for grants to encourage arrest policies as 
        authorized by part U of the 1968 Act;
            (6) $39,166,000 for rural domestic violence and child abuse 
        enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 40295(a) 
        of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $4,958,000 for training programs as authorized by 
        section 40152 of the 1994 Act, and for related local 
        demonstration projects;
            (8) $2,962,000 for grants to improve the stalking and 
        domestic violence databases, as authorized by section 40602 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (9) $9,054,000 to reduce violent crimes against women on 
        campus, as authorized by section 1108(a) of Public Law 106-386;
            (10) $39,220,000 for legal assistance for victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201(c) of Public Law 106-386;
            (11) $4,540,000 for enhancing protection for older and 
        disabled women from domestic violence and sexual assault, as 
        authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
            (12) $13,894,000 for the safe havens for children pilot 
        program, as authorized by section 1301(a) of Public Law 106-386; 
        and
            (13) $7,155,000 for education and training to end violence 
        against and abuse of women with disabilities, as authorized by 
        section 1402(a) of Public Law 106-386.

                       Office of Justice Programs


                           justice assistance


    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, the Missing Children's Assistance Act, including salaries and 
expenses in connection therewith, the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other 
Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 
108-21), the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405), and the 
Victims of Crime Act of 1984, $233,233,000, to remain available until 
expended.


               state and local law enforcement assistance


    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); and the Victims of 
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); 
and other programs; $1,142,707,000 (including amounts for administrative 
costs, which shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Justice 
Assistance'' account): Provided, That funding provided under this 
heading shall remain available until expended, as follows--

[[Page 119 STAT. 2300]]

            (1) $416,478,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
        Assistance Grant program pursuant to the amendments made by 
        section 201 of H.R. 3036 of the 108th Congress, as passed by the 
        House of Representatives on March 30, 2004 (except that the 
        special rules for Puerto Rico established pursuant to such 
        amendments shall not apply for purposes of this Act), of which--
                    (A) $10,000,000 is for the National Institute of 
                Justice in assisting units of local government to 
                identify, select, develop, modernize, and purchase new 
                technologies for use by law enforcement; and
                    (B) $85,000,000 for Boys and Girls Clubs in public 
                housing facilities and other areas in cooperation with 
                State and local law enforcement, as authorized by 
                section 401 of Public Law 104-294 (42 U.S.C. 13751 
                note);
            (2) $405,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 242(j) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act;
            (3) $30,000,000 for the Southwest Border Prosecutor 
        Initiative to reimburse State, county, parish, tribal, or 
        municipal governments only for costs associated with the 
        prosecution of criminal cases declined by local United States 
        Attorneys offices;
            (4) $191,704,000 for discretionary grants authorized by 
        subpart 2 of part E, of title I of the 1968 Act, notwithstanding 
        the provisions of section 511 of said Act;
            (5) $10,000,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
        trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 
        106-386;
            (6) $850,000 for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient 
        Alert Program, as authorized by section 240001(c) of the 1994 
        Act;
            (7) $10,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by part EE of 
        the 1968 Act;
            (8) $7,500,000 for a prescription drug monitoring program;
            (9) $18,175,000 for prison rape prevention and prosecution 
        programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (Public Law 108-79), of which $2,175,000 shall be 
        transferred to the National Prison Rape Elimination Commission 
        for authorized activities;
            (10) $10,000,000 for grants for residential substance abuse 
        treatment for State prisoners, as authorized by part S of the 
        1968 Act;
            (11) $10,000,000 for a program to improve State and local 
        law enforcement intelligence capabilities including 
        antiterrorism training and training to ensure that 
        constitutional rights, civil liberties, civil rights, and 
        privacy interests are protected throughout the intelligence 
        process;
            (12) $1,000,000 for a capital litigation improvement grant 
        program;
            (13) $5,000,000 for a cannabis eradication program to be 
        administered by the Drug Enforcement Administration;
            (14) $22,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes, of which--
                    (A) $9,000,000 shall be available for grants under 
                section 20109(a)(2) of subtitle A of title II of the 
                1994 Act;
                    (B) $8,000,000 shall be available for the Tribal 
                Courts Initiative; and

[[Page 119 STAT. 2301]]

                    (C) $5,000,000 shall be available for demonstration 
                projects on alcohol and crime in Indian Country; and
            (15) $5,000,000 for mental health courts and adult and 
        juvenile collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts V 
        and HH of title I of the 1968 Act:

Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds made 
available under this title to increase the number of law enforcement 
officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net gain in the 
number of law enforcement officers who perform nonadministrative public 
safety service.


                       weed and seed program fund


    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007, for inter-governmental agreements, including grants, cooperative 
agreements, and contracts, with State and local law enforcement 
agencies, non-profit organizations, and agencies of local government 
engaged in the investigation and prosecution of violent and gang-related 
crimes and drug offenses in ``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, 
and for either reimbursements or transfers to appropriation accounts of 
the Department of Justice and other Federal agencies which shall be 
specified by the Attorney General to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' 
program strategy: Provided, That funds designated by Congress through 
language for other Department of Justice appropriation accounts for 
``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be managed and executed by 
the Attorney General through the Executive Office 
for <<NOTE: Notification.>> Weed and Seed: Provided further, That the 
Attorney General may direct the use of other Department of Justice funds 
and personnel in support of ``Weed and Seed'' program activities only 
after the Attorney General notifies the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 
605 of this Act: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated for 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, not to exceed $2,000,000 shall 
be directed for comprehensive community development training and 
technical assistance.


                  community oriented policing services


                     (including transfers of funds)


    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (including administrative 
costs), $478,300,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
of the funds under this heading, not to exceed $2,575,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Justice Programs for reimbursable services 
associated with programs administered by the Community Oriented Policing 
Services Office: Provided further, That section 1703(b) and (c) of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act'') 
shall not apply to non-hiring grants made pursuant to part Q of title I 
thereof (42 U.S.C. 3796dd et seq.): Provided further, That up to 
$34,000,000 of balances made available as a result of prior year 
deobligations may be obligated for program management and 
administration, of which $5,000,000 shall be available for transfer to 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology: Provided

[[Page 119 STAT. 2302]]

further, That any balances made available as a result of prior year 
deobligations in excess of $34,000,000 shall only be obligated in 
accordance with section 605 of this Act. Of the amounts provided--
            (1) $30,000,000 is for the matching grant program for law 
        enforcement armor vests as authorized by section 2501 of part Y 
        of the 1968 Act, of which not to exceed $3,000,000 may be for 
        the National Institute of Justice to test and evaluate vests;
            (2) $63,590,000 is for policing initiatives to combat 
        methamphetamine production and trafficking and to enhance 
        policing initiatives in ``drug hot spots'';
            (3) $139,904,000 is for a law enforcement technologies and 
        interoperable communications program;
            (4) $10,000,000 is for grants to upgrade criminal records, 
        as authorized under the Crime Identification Technology Act of 
        1998 (42 U.S.C. 14601);
            (5) $5,000,000 is for an offender re-entry program;
            (6) $108,531,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
        enhancement program, and for other State, local and Federal 
        forensic activities, of which $4,000,000 shall be for grant 
        programs as authorized by sections 412 and 413 of Public Law 
        108-405;
            (7) $15,000,000 is for law enforcement assistance to Indian 
        tribes;
            (8) $40,000,000 for a national program to reduce gang 
        violence;
            (9) $4,000,000 is for training and technical assistance;
            (10) $18,500,000 is for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
        Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act (42 
        U.S.C. 3797j et seq.);
            (11) $28,775,000 is for grants, contracts and other 
        assistance to States under section 102(b) of the Crime 
        Identification Technology Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 14601); and
            (12) $15,000,000 is for Project Safe Neighborhoods, of which 
        $4,500,000 is for the National District Attorneys Association to 
        conduct prosecutorial training by the National Advocacy Center.


                        juvenile justice programs


    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974 (``the Act''), and other juvenile justice programs, including 
salaries and expenses in connection therewith to be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Justice Assistance, $342,739,000, to 
remain available until expended, as follows--
            (1) $712,000 for concentration of Federal efforts, as 
        authorized by section 204 of the Act;
            (2) $80,000,000 for State and local programs authorized by 
        section 221 of the Act, including training and technical 
        assistance to assist small, non-profit organizations with the 
        Federal grants process;
            (3) $106,027,000 for demonstration projects, as authorized 
        by sections 261 and 262 of the Act;
            (4) $10,000,000 for juvenile mentoring programs;
            (5) $65,000,000 for delinquency prevention, as authorized by 
        section 505 of the Act, of which--

[[Page 119 STAT. 2303]]

                    (A) $10,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth 
                Program;
                    (B) $25,000,000 shall be for a gang resistance 
                education and training program; and
                    (C) $25,000,000 shall be for grants of $360,000 to 
                each State and $6,640,000 shall be available for 
                discretionary grants to States, for programs and 
                activities to enforce State laws prohibiting the sale of 
                alcoholic beverages to minors or the purchase or 
                consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors, prevention 
                and reduction of consumption of alcoholic beverages by 
                minors, and for technical assistance and training;
            (6) $1,000,000 for Project Childsafe;
            (7) $15,000,000 for the Secure Our Schools Act as authorized 
        by Public Law 106-386;
            (8) $15,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
        Child Abuse Act of 1990; and
            (9) $50,000,000 for the Juvenile Accountability Block Grants 
        program as authorized by Public Law 107-273 and Guam shall be 
        considered a State:

Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be used for 
research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed to benefit the 
programs or activities authorized: Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of each amount may be used for training and technical 
assistance: Provided further, That the previous two provisos shall not 
apply to demonstration projects, as authorized by sections 261 and 
262 <<NOTE: Applicability. Grants.>> of the Act: Provided further, That 
section 702(a) of Public Law 88-352 shall apply to any grants for World 
Vision, described in House Report No. 108-792 and the statement of 
managers accompanying this Act, and awarded by the Attorney General.


                     public safety officers benefits


    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized by part 
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3796), such sums as are necessary, as authorized by section 
6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340); and $4,884,000, to 
remain available until expended for payments as authorized by section 
1201(b) of said Act; and $4,064,000 for educational assistance, as 
authorized by section 1212 of the 1968 Act.

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $60,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 102. None of the <<NOTE: Abortion.>> funds appropriated by this 
title shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the life 
of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or 
in the case of rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.

    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2304]]

    Sec. 104. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 103 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 105. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated to ``Buildings and Facilities, Federal Prison System'' in 
this or any other Act may be transferred to ``Salaries and Expenses, 
Federal Prison System'', or any other Department of Justice account, 
unless the President certifies that such a transfer is necessary to the 
national security interests of the United States, and such authority 
shall not be delegated, and shall be subject to section 605 of this Act.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3104 note.>> The Attorney General is 
authorized to extend through September 30, 2007, the Personnel 
Management Demonstration Project transferred to the Attorney General 
pursuant to section 1115 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public 
Law 107-296 (6 U.S.C. 533) without limitation on the number of employees 
or the positions covered.

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Applicability. 28 USC 533 note.>> Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, Public Law 102-395 section 102(b) shall 
extend to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in the 
conduct of undercover investigative operations and shall apply without 
fiscal year limitation with respect to any undercover investigative 
operation initiated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives that is necessary for the detection and prosecution of crimes 
against the United States.

    Sec. 108. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used for the purpose of transporting an 
individual who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime under 
State or Federal law and is classified as a maximum or high security 
prisoner, other than to a prison or other facility certified by the 
Federal Bureau of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a 
prisoner.
    Sec. 109. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by Federal prisons to purchase cable television services, to rent or 
purchase videocassettes, videocassette recorders, or other audiovisual 
or electronic equipment used primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) The preceding sentence does not preclude the renting, 
maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic equipment for 
inmate training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 110. <<NOTE: Establishment.>> Within the funds provided under 
``Justice Information Sharing Technology'', the Attorney General shall 
establish an investment review board, which the Deputy Attorney General 
shall head: Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>> within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act, the Department shall submit a plan that outlines 
the governance

[[Page 119 STAT. 2305]]

structure and membership of the <<NOTE: Deadline.>> board: Provided 
further, That the Department shall submit to the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives, within 90 days of enactment of this Act, the 
project criteria that will initiate the board's oversight, to include a 
listing of all projects to be reviewed during fiscal year 2006.

    Sec. 111. Section 3151(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by--
            (1) striking paragraph (2)(A) and (B);
            (2) in paragraph (1) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (3) redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), respectively.

    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Establishment.>> Within the funds provided for the 
Drug Enforcement Administration, the Attorney General shall establish a 
Methamphetamine Task Force within the Drug Enforcement Administration 
which shall be responsible for improving and targeting the Federal 
Government's policies with respect to the production and trafficking 
of <<NOTE: Deadline.>> methamphetamine: Provided, That within 90 days of 
enactment of this Act, the Drug Enforcement Administration shall submit 
a plan that outlines the governance structure and membership of the 
task <<NOTE: Deadline.>> force: Provided further, That within 120 days 
the Drug Enforcement Administration shall submit to the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives the membership of the task force and powers 
established for the task force.

    Sec. 113. (a) Section 4(a) of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
2003 (42 U.S.C. 15603(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, except as authorized 
        in paragraph (7)'' before the period at the end; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Reporting on child abuse and neglect.--Nothing in 
        section 304 or 812 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
        Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3735, 3789g) or any other 
        provision of law, including paragraph (5), shall prevent the 
        Bureau (including its agents), in carrying out the review and 
        analysis under paragraph (1), from reporting to the designated 
        public officials such information (and only such information) 
        regarding child abuse or child neglect with respect to which the 
        statutes or regulations of a State (or a political subdivision 
        thereof) require prompt reporting.''.

    (b) Section 7(d)(3)(A) of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 
(42 U.S.C. 15606(d)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``2 years'' and 
inserting ``3 years''.
    Sec. 114. <<NOTE: Bulletproof vests.>> The Attorney General shall 
waive the matching requirement for the purchase of bulletproof vests of 
the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998 for any law 
enforcement agency that purchased defective Zylon-based body armor with 
Federal funds pursuant to such Act between October 1, 1998, and 
September 30, 2005, and seeks to replace that Zylon-based body armor, 
provided that the law enforcement agency can present documentation to 
prove the purchase of Zylon-based body armor with funds awarded to it 
under such Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2006''.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2306]]

TITLE II--DEPARTMENT <<NOTE: Department of Commerce and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006.>> OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$44,779,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $124,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That not less 
than $2,000,000 provided under this heading shall be for expenses 
authorized by 19 U.S.C. 2451 and 1677b(c): Provided further, That 
negotiations shall be conducted within the World Trade Organization to 
recognize the right of members to distribute monies collected from 
antidumping and countervailing duties: Provided further, That 
negotiations shall be conducted within the World Trade Organization 
consistent with the negotiating objectives contained in the Trade Act of 
2002, Public Law 107-210.

                     International Trade Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $62,752,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration


                      operations and administration


    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical 
coverage for dependent members of immediate families of employees 
stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel and 
transportation of employees of the United States and Foreign Commercial 
Service between two points abroad, without regard to 49 U.S.C. 40118; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services; rental of 
space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and expenses of 
alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction of 
temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; payment of 
tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 
U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to

[[Page 119 STAT. 2307]]

exceed $327,000 for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 
per vehicle; obtaining insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental 
of tie lines, $406,925,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007, of which $8,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be retained and 
used by the International Trade Administration, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302: Provided, That $47,434,000 shall be for Manufacturing and 
Services; $39,815,000 shall be for Market Access and Compliance; 
$62,134,000 shall be for the Import Administration of which not less 
than $3,000,000 is for the Office of China Compliance; $231,722,000 
shall be for the United States and Foreign Commercial Service; and 
$25,820,000 shall be for Executive Direction and Administration: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That negotiations shall be 
conducted within the World Trade Organization to recognize the right of 
members to distribute monies collected from antidumping and 
countervailing duties: Provided further, That the provisions of the 
first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities without regard to 
section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 
U.S.C. 4912); and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 shall include payment for assessments for services provided as part 
of these activities: Provided further, That the International Trade 
Administration shall be exempt from the requirements of Circular A-25 
(or any successor administrative regulation or policy) issued by the 
Office of Management and Budget: Provided further, That negotiations 
shall be conducted within the World Trade Organization consistent with 
the negotiating objectives contained in the Trade Act of 2002, Public 
Law 107-210.

                     Bureau of Industry and Security


                      operations and administration


    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; 
payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph 
of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to 
exceed $15,000 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, 
and as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 401(b); and purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use 
with special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard 
to any price limitation otherwise established by law, $76,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $14,767,000 shall be for 
inspections and other activities related 
to <<NOTE: Applicability.>> national security: Provided, That the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying

[[Page 119 STAT. 2308]]

out these activities: Provided further, That payments and contributions 
collected and accepted for materials or services provided as part of 
such activities may be retained for use in covering the cost of such 
activities, and for providing information to the public with respect to 
the export administration and national security activities of the 
Department of Commerce and other export control programs of the United 
States and other governments.

                   Economic Development Administration


                economic development assistance programs


    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, and for trade 
adjustment assistance, $253,985,000, to remain available until expended.


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $30,075,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title I 
of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, and the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency


                      minority business development


    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $30,024,000.

                 Economic and Information Infrastructure

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$80,304,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

                          Bureau of the Census


                          salaries and expenses


    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $198,029,000.


                     periodic censuses and programs


    For necessary expenses related to the 2010 decennial census, 
$453,596,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $160,612,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, <<NOTE: 13 USC 5 
note.>> That none of the funds provided in this or any other Act

[[Page 119 STAT. 2309]]

for any fiscal year may be used for the collection of Census data on 
race identification that does not include ``some other race'' as a 
category.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $18,068,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall 
charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum management, 
analysis, and operations, and related services and such fees shall be 
retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum 
services, to remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting 
collections all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other 
Government agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications 
research, engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.


     public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction


    For the administration of grants authorized by section 392 of the 
Communications Act of 1934, $22,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,000,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of the Act, the prior year 
unobligated balances may be made available for grants for projects for 
which applications have been submitted and approved during any fiscal 
year.

                United States Patent and Trademark Office


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office provided for by law, including defense of suits instituted 
against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and 
Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, 
$1,683,086,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as 
offsetting collections assessed and collected pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 
and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376 are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to 
result in a fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at $0: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2006, should 
the total amount of offsetting fee collections be less than 
$1,683,086,000, this amount shall be reduced accordingly: Provided 
further, That not less than 657 full-time equivalents, 690 positions and 
$85,017,000 shall be for the examination of trademark applications; and 
not less than 5,810 full-time equivalents, 6,241 positions and 
$906,142,000 shall be for the examination and

[[Page 119 STAT. 2310]]

searching of patent applications: Provided further, That not more than 
265 full-time equivalents, 272 positions and $37,490,000 shall be for 
the Office of the General Counsel: Provided further, That not more than 
82 full-time equivalents, 83 positions and $25,393,000 shall be for the 
Office of the Administrator for External Affairs: Provided further, That 
any deviation from the full-time equivalent, position, and funding 
designations set forth in the preceding four provisos shall be subject 
to the procedures set forth in section 605 of this Act: Provided 
further, That from amounts provided herein, not to exceed $1,000 shall 
be made available in fiscal year 2006 for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
1353 of title 31, United States Code, no employee of the United States 
Patent and Trademark Office may accept payment or reimbursement from a 
non-Federal entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the 
purpose of enabling an employee to attend and participate in a 
convention, conference, or meeting when the entity offering payment or 
reimbursement is a person or corporation subject to regulation by the 
Office, or represents a person or corporation subject to regulation by 
the Office, unless the person or corporation is an organization exempt 
from taxation pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986: Provided further, That in fiscal year 2006, from the amounts 
made available for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for the United States 
Patent and Trademark Office (PTO), the amounts necessary to pay: (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the PTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter III of chapter 
83 of that title; and (2) the present value of the otherwise unfunded 
accruing costs, as determined by the Office of Personnel Management, of 
post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement health benefits 
coverage for all PTO employees, shall be transferred to the Civil 
Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the Employees Life Insurance 
Fund, and the Employees Health Benefits Fund, as appropriate, and shall 
be available for the authorized purposes of those accounts.

                         Science and Technology

                        Technology Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology Office 
of Technology Policy, $6,000,000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology


             scientific and technical research and services


    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $399,869,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $1,300,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund''.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2311]]

                     industrial technology services


    For necessary expenses of the Hollings Manufacturing Extension 
Partnership of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$106,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced Technology 
Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$80,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                   construction of research facilities


    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, and for renovation and maintenance of existing 
facilities, not otherwise provided for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, 
$175,898,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 15 
USC 1513b.>> That beginning in fiscal year 2007 and for each fiscal year 
thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce shall include in the budget 
justification materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in 
support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
Code) an estimate for each National Institute of Standards and 
Technology construction project having a total multiyear program cost of 
more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget justification 
materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary requirements for 
each such project for each of the five subsequent fiscal years.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                  operations, research, and facilities


                     (including transfers of funds)


    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; grants, contracts, or other 
payments to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting 
activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; and relocation of 
facilities, $2,763,222,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007, except for funds provided for cooperative enforcement which shall 
remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That fees and 
donations received by the National Ocean Service for the management of 
national marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for the salaries 
and expenses associated with those activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302: Provided further, That in addition, $3,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the fund entitled ``Coastal Zone Management'' and in 
addition $67,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'': Provided further, That of the $2,833,222,000 
provided for in direct obligations under this heading $2,763,222,000 is 
appropriated from the general fund and $70,000,000 is provided by 
transfer: Provided further, That no general administrative charge shall 
be applied against an assigned activity included in this Act or the 
report accompanying this Act: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
corporate services administrative support costs shall

[[Page 119 STAT. 2312]]

not exceed $179,036,000: Provided further, That payments of funds made 
available under this heading to the Department of Commerce Working 
Capital Fund including Department of Commerce General Counsel legal 
services shall not exceed $34,000,000: Provided further, That any 
deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities in the 
report accompanying this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of 
funds provided under this heading in previous years, shall be subject to 
the procedures set forth in section 605 of this Act: Provided further, 
That grants to States pursuant to sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000, 
unless funds provided for ``Coastal Zone Management Grants'' exceed 
funds provided in the previous fiscal year: Provided further, That if 
funds provided for ``Coastal Zone Management Grants'' exceed funds 
provided in the previous fiscal year, then no State shall receive more 
than 5 percent or less than 1 percent of the additional funds: Provided 
further, That the personnel management demonstration project established 
at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 4703 may be expanded by 3,500 full-time positions to include up 
to 6,925 full-time positions and may be extended indefinitely: Provided 
further, That the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration may engage in formal and informal education activities, 
including primary and secondary education, related to the agency's 
mission goals: Provided further, That, in accordance with the Federal 
Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), within funds 
appropriated under this heading, $2,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended, for the cost of loans under section 211(e) of title II of 
division C of Public Law 105-277, such loans to have terms of up to 30 
years and to be available for use in any of the Bering Sea and Aleutian 
Islands fisheries.
    In addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the Retired 
Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and for 
payments for the medical care of retired personnel and their dependents 
under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as 
may be necessary.


                procurement, acquisition and construction


    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, $1,124,278,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008, except funds provided for construction of facilities 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amounts provided for the National Polar-orbiting Operational 
Environmental Satellite System, funds shall only be made available on a 
dollar for dollar matching basis with funds provided for the same 
purpose by the Department of Defense: Provided further, That except to 
the extent expressly prohibited by any other law, the Department of 
Defense may delegate procurement functions related to the National 
Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System to officials 
of the Department of Commerce pursuant to section 2311 of title 10, 
United States Code: Provided further, That any deviation from the 
amounts designated for specific activities in the report accompanying 
this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under 
this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set 
forth in section 605 of this Act: Provided further, <<NOTE: 15 USC 
1513a.>> That beginning in

[[Page 119 STAT. 2313]]

fiscal year 2007 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall include in the budget justification materials that the 
Secretary submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce 
budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition and 
construction program having a total multiyear program cost of more than 
$5,000,000 and an estimate of the budgetary requirements for each such 
program for each of the five subsequent fiscal years: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts. California.>> That subject to amounts 
provided in advance in appropriations Acts, the Secretary of Commerce is 
authorized to enter into a lease with The Regents of the University of 
California for land at the San Diego Campus in La Jolla for a term not 
less than 55 years: Provided further, That funds appropriated for the 
construction of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
Pacific Regional Center are an additional increment in the incremental 
funding planned for the Center, and may be expended incrementally, 
through multi-year contracts for construction and related activities, 
provided that obligations under any such multi-year contract shall be 
subject to the availability of appropriations.


                     pacific coastal salmon recovery


    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $67,500,000.


                      coastal zone management fund


                      (including transfer of funds)


    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed $3,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' account 
to offset the costs of implementing such Act.


                    fisheries finance program account


    For the costs of direct loans, $287,000, as authorized by the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990: Provided further, That these funds are only 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $5,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota 
loans, and not to exceed $59,000,000 for traditional direct loans, of 
which $19,000,000 may be used for direct loans to the United States 
menhaden fishery: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading may be used for direct loans for any new 
fishing vessel that will increase the harvesting capacity in any United 
States fishery.

                                  Other

                         Departmental Management


                          salaries and expenses


    For expenses necessary for the departmental management of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not

[[Page 119 STAT. 2314]]

to exceed $5,000 for official entertainment, $47,466,000: Provided, That 
not to exceed 11 full-time equivalents and $1,490,000 shall be expended 
for the legislative affairs function of the Department.


               united states travel and tourism promotion


    For necessary expenses of the United States Travel and Tourism 
Promotion Program, as authorized by section 210 of Public Law 108-7, for 
programs promoting travel to the United States including grants, 
contracts, cooperative agreements and related costs, $4,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2007.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $22,758,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce


                      (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act shall 
be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 
(15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, 
and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced payments 
not otherwise authorized only upon the certification of officials 
designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such payments are in the 
public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary of 
Commerce shall notify the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days 
in advance of the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset 
(including land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided 
for in this or any other Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, 
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: Provided 
further, That for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
this section shall provide for transfers among appropriations made only 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and such 
appropriations may not be transferred and reprogrammed to other 
Department of Commerce bureaus and appropriation accounts.

    Sec. 204. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this title resulting from personnel actions taken in response

[[Page 119 STAT. 2315]]

to funding reductions included in this title or from actions taken for 
the care and protection of loan collateral or grant property shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 205. Funds made available for salaries and administrative 
expenses to administer the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program in 
section 211(b) of Public Law 108-199 shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That section 101(k) of the Emergency Steel Loan 
Guarantee Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-51; 15 U.S.C. 1841 note) is 
amended by striking ``2005'' and inserting ``2007''.
    Sec. 206. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be used to register, issue, transfer, 
or enforce any trademark of the phrase ``Last Best Place''.
    Sec. 207. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amounts 
made available elsewhere in this title to the ``National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, Construction of Research Facilities'', 
$8,000,000 is for a cooperative agreement with the Medical University of 
South Carolina; $20,000,000 is for the National Formulation Science 
Laboratory at the University of Southern Mississippi; $20,000,000 is for 
the University of Mississippi Research Park; $5,000,000 is for the 
Alabama State University Science and Education Building; $8,000,000 is 
for Tuscaloosa, Alabama, revitalization; $20,000,000 is for the 
Biomedical Research Center at the University of Alabama at Birmingham; 
$3,000,000 is for the Institute for Security Technology Studies; 
$1,000,000 is for the Thayer School of Engineering; $12,000,000 is for 
the WVHTCF Research Facility; and $30,000,000 is for the University of 
Alabama for the design and construction of the Science and Engineering 
Center.
    Sec. 208. Of the amount available from the fund entitled ``Promote 
and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American 
Fisheries'', $7,000,000 shall be provided to the Alaska Fisheries 
Marketing Board, $5,000,000 shall be available to the Southern Shrimp 
Alliance for its ``Wild American Shrimp Marketing Program''.
    Sec. 209. Of the amounts made available under the heading 
``Procurement, Acquisition and Construction, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration'', $27,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the planning, design, 
and construction of Building 3203, for the planning and design of 
Buildings 3205 and 3216, and for certain infrastructure improvements.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006''.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2316]]

TITLE <<NOTE: Science Appropriations Act, 2006.>> III--SCIENCE

                 Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601-6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia, $5,564,000.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                  science, aeronautics and exploration


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics and exploration research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support and services; maintenance; construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; environmental 
compliance and restoration; space flight, spacecraft control and 
communications activities including operations, production, and 
services; program management; personnel and related costs, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $35,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $9,761,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2007, of which amounts as determined by the Administrator 
for salaries and benefits; training, travel and awards; facility and 
related costs; information technology services; science, engineering, 
fabricating and testing services; and other administrative services may 
be transferred to ``Exploration Capabilities'' in accordance with 
section 312(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as 
amended by Public Law 106-377.


                        exploration capabilities


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration capabilities research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, support and 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities including repair, 
rehabilitation, revitalization and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and acquisition or condemnation of real 
property, as authorized by law; environmental compliance and 
restoration; space flight, spacecraft control and communications 
activities including operations, production, and services; program 
management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-

[[Page 119 STAT. 2317]]

5902; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $35,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft, $6,663,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2007, of which amounts as determined by the 
Administrator for salaries and benefits; training, travel and awards; 
facility and related costs; information technology services; science, 
engineering, fabricating and testing services; and other administrative 
services may be transferred to ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'' 
in accordance with section 312(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Act of 1958, as amended by Public Law 106-377.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $32,400,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2007.


                        administrative provisions


    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'', or 
``Exploration Capabilities'' by this appropriations Act, when any 
activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities or environmental compliance and restoration 
activities as authorized by law, such amount available for such activity 
shall remain available until expended. This provision does not apply to 
the amounts appropriated for institutional minor revitalization and 
construction of facilities, and institutional facility planning and 
design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'', or 
``Exploration Capabilities'' by this appropriations Act, the amounts 
appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain available until 
September 30, 2008.
    Funds for announced prizes otherwise authorized shall remain 
available, without fiscal year limitation, until the prize is claimed or 
the offer is withdrawn. Funding shall not be made available for 
Centennial Challenges unless authorized.
    Funding made available under the headings ``Exploration 
Capabilities'' and ``Science, Aeronautics and Exploration'' in this Act 
shall be governed by the terms and conditions specified in the statement 
of managers accompanying the conference report for this Act.
    The unexpired balances of prior appropriations to National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration for activities for which funds are 
provided under this Act may be transferred to the new account 
established for the appropriation that provides such activity under this 
Act. Balances so transferred may be merged with funds in the newly 
established account and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund 
under the same terms and conditions.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2318]]

                       National Science Foundation


                     research and related activities


    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and the Act to 
establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $4,387,520,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2007, of which not to exceed $425,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for Polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational 
and science support and logistical and other related activities for the 
United States Antarctic program: Provided, That from funds specified in 
the fiscal year 2006 budget request for icebreaking services, such sums 
shall be available for the procurement of polar icebreaking services: 
Provided further, That the National Science Foundation shall reimburse 
the Coast Guard according to the existing memorandum of agreement: 
Provided further, That receipts for scientific support services and 
materials furnished by the National Research Centers and other National 
Science Foundation supported research facilities may be credited to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That to the extent that the amount 
appropriated is less than the total amount authorized to be appropriated 
for included program activities, all amounts, including floors and 
ceilings, specified in the authorizing Act for those program activities 
or their subactivities shall be reduced proportionally: Provided 
further, That funds under this heading may be available for innovation 
inducement prizes.


          major research equipment and facilities construction


    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, including authorized travel, 
$193,350,000, to remain available until expended.


                      education and human resources


    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, authorized 
travel, and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$807,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, 
That to the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the 
authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally.


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2319]]

1861-1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services; $250,000,000: Provided, That contracts may be 
entered into under ``Salaries and Expenses'' in fiscal year 2006 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.


                  office of the national science board


    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) involved 
in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 
(42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,000,000: Provided, That not more than $9,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$11,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.
    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 2006''.

TITLE <<NOTE: Department of State and Related Agency Appropriations Act, 
2006.>> IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs


                    diplomatic and consular programs


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including employment, without regard 
to civil service and classification laws, of persons on a temporary 
basis (not to exceed $700,000 of this appropriation), as authorized by 
section 801 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948; representation to certain international organizations in 
which the United States participates pursuant to treaties ratified 
pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or specific Acts of 
Congress; arms control, nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
authorized; acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by law; and for expenses of general 
administration, $3,680,019,000: Provided, That not to exceed 71 
permanent positions and $9,804,000 shall be for the Bureau of 
Legislative Affairs: Provided further, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, not to exceed $4,000,000 may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds in the ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular 
Service'' appropriations account, to be available only for emergency 
evacuations and terrorism rewards: Provided further, That of the amount 
made

[[Page 119 STAT. 2320]]

available under this heading, not less than $334,000,000 shall be 
available only for public diplomacy international information programs: 
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
not less than $2,000,000 shall be for a contribution to the Scholar 
Rescue Fund endowment: Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be available only for the 
operations of the Office on Right-Sizing the United States Government 
Overseas Presence: Provided further, That funds available under this 
heading may be available for a United States Government interagency task 
force to examine, coordinate and oversee United States participation in 
the United Nations headquarters 
renovation <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> project: Provided further, 
That no funds may be obligated or expended for processing licenses for 
the export of satellites of United States origin (including commercial 
satellites and satellite components) to the People's Republic of China 
unless, at least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified of such 
proposed action: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading are available, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1108(g), for the field 
examination of programs and activities in the United States funded from 
any account contained in this title.

    In addition, not to exceed $1,469,000 shall be derived from fees 
collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities 
located at the International Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
International Center Act; in addition, as authorized by section 5 of 
such Act, $490,000, to be derived from the reserve authorized by that 
section, to be used for the purposes set out in that section; in 
addition, as authorized by section 810 of the United States Information 
and Educational Exchange Act, not to exceed $6,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, may be credited to this appropriation from 
fees or other payments received from English teaching, library, motion 
pictures, and publication programs and from fees from educational 
advising and counseling and exchange visitor programs; and, in addition, 
not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived from reimbursements, 
surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House facilities.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
$689,523,000, to remain available until expended.


                         capital investment fund


    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $58,895,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized: Provided, That 
section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 shall not apply to funds available 
under this heading.


        centralized information technology modernization program


    For expenses relating to the modernization of the information 
technology systems and networks of the Department of State, $69,368,000, 
to remain available until expended.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$30,029,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign

[[Page 119 STAT. 2321]]

Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post 
inspections.


               educational and cultural exchange programs


    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $431,790,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, may 
be credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments received 
from or in connection with English teaching, educational advising and 
counseling programs, and exchange visitor programs as authorized.


                        representation allowances


    For representation allowances as authorized, $8,281,000.


              protection of foreign missions and officials


    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$9,390,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.


             embassy security, construction, and maintenance


    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292-303), preserving, maintaining, 
repairing, and planning for buildings that are owned or directly leased 
by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to funds otherwise 
available, the Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
Security Construction Program as authorized, $598,800,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized, of which not to exceed $25,000 
may be used for domestic and overseas representation as authorized: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
available for acquisition of furniture, furnishings, or generators for 
other departments and agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $910,200,000, to remain 
available until expended.


           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended as authorized, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
``Repatriation Loans Program Account'', subject to the same terms and 
conditions.


                   repatriation loans program account


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For the cost of direct loans, $712,000, as authorized: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2322]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $607,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with funds in the ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' account.


               payment to the american institute in taiwan


    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act (Public 
Law 96-8), $19,751,000.


      payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund


    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $131,700,000.

                       International Organizations


              contributions to international organizations


    For expenses, <<NOTE: 22 USC 269a note.>> not otherwise provided 
for, necessary to meet annual obligations of membership in international 
multilateral organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, conventions or specific Acts of 
Congress, $1,166,212,000: Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, 
at the time of the submission of the President's budget to Congress 
under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the 
Committees on Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by 
the United Nations for the operations of the United Nations: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the Secretary of State 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in 
advance (or in an emergency, as far in advance as is practicable) of any 
United Nations action to increase funding for any United Nations program 
without identifying an offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United 
Nations budget and cause the United Nations budget for the biennium 
2006-2007 to exceed the revised United Nations budget level for the 
biennium 2004-2005 of $3,695,480,000: Provided further, That any payment 
of arrearages under this title shall be directed toward special 
activities that are mutually agreed upon by the United States and the 
respective international organization: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for a United 
States contribution to an international organization for the United 
States share of interest costs made known to the United States 
Government by such organization for loans incurred on or after October 
1, 1984, through external borrowings.


         contributions for international peacekeeping activities


    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $1,035,500,000, of 
which 15 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2007: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> That none of the funds made 
available under this Act shall be obligated or expended for any new or 
expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission unless, at least 15 days in 
advance of voting for the new or expanded mission in the United Nations 
Security Council (or in an emergency as far in advance as is

[[Page 119 STAT. 2323]]

practicable): (1) the Committees on Appropriations and other appropriate 
committees of the Congress are notified of the estimated cost and length 
of the mission, the national interest that will be served, and the 
planned exit strategy; (2) the Committees on Appropriations and other 
appropriate committees of the Congress are notified that the United 
Nations has taken appropriate measures to prevent United Nations 
employees, contractor personnel, and peacekeeping forces serving in any 
United Nations peacekeeping mission from trafficking in persons, 
exploiting victims of trafficking, or committing acts of illegal sexual 
exploitation, and to hold accountable individuals who engage in such 
acts while participating in the peacekeeping mission; and (3) a 
reprogramming of funds pursuant to section 605 of this Act is submitted, 
and the procedures therein followed, setting forth the source of funds 
that will be used to pay for the cost of the new or expanded mission: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That funds shall be available 
for peacekeeping expenses only upon a certification by the Secretary of 
State to the appropriate committees of the Congress that American 
manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities to provide 
equipment, services, and material for United Nations peacekeeping 
activities equal to those being given to foreign manufacturers and 
suppliers: Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
this heading are available to pay the United States share of the cost of 
court monitoring that is part of any United Nations peacekeeping 
mission.

                        International Commissions

    For <<NOTE: 22 USC 269a note.>> necessary expenses, not otherwise 
provided for, to meet obligations of the United States arising under 
treaties, or specific Acts of Congress, as follows:


  international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico


    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:


                          salaries and expenses


    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $28,000,000.


                              construction


    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $5,300,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized.


              american sections, international commissions


    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized

[[Page 119 STAT. 2324]]

by Public Law 103-182, $10,039,000, of which not to exceed $9,000 shall 
be available for representation expenses incurred by the International 
Joint Commission.


                   international fisheries commissions


    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $24,000,000: Provided, 
That the United States' share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                  Other


                     payment to the asia foundation


    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by the Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $14,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized.


          center for middle eastern-western dialogue trust fund


    For a grant to the Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust 
Fund (22 U.S.C. 2078), $5,000,000 for operation of the Center for Middle 
Eastern-Western Dialogue in Istanbul, Turkey.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Center for Middle 
Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund, the total amount of the interest 
and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 2006, to 
remain available until expended.


                 eisenhower exchange fellowship program


    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2006, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in accordance 
with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative Requirements) and A-122 
(Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations), including the 
restrictions on compensation for personal services.


                    israeli arab scholarship program


    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
2006, to remain available until expended.


                            east-west center


    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, 
$19,240,000: Provided, That none of the funds

[[Page 119 STAT. 2325]]

appropriated herein shall be used to pay any salary, or enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.


                    national endowment for democracy


    For grants made by the Department of State to the National Endowment 
for Democracy as authorized by the National Endowment for Democracy Act, 
$75,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Broadcasting Board of Governors


                  international broadcasting operations


    For expenses necessary to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, as authorized, to carry out international communication 
activities, including the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement 
of facilities for radio and television transmission and reception and 
purchase, lease, and installation of necessary equipment for radio and 
television transmission and reception to Cuba, and to make and supervise 
grants for radio and television broadcasting to the Middle East, 
$641,450,000: Provided, That of the total amount in this heading, not to 
exceed $16,000 may be used for official receptions within the United 
States as authorized, not to exceed $35,000 may be used for 
representation abroad as authorized, and not to exceed $39,000 may be 
used for official reception and representation expenses of Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty; and in addition, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $2,000,000 in receipts from advertising 
and revenue from business ventures, not to exceed $500,000 in receipts 
from cooperating international organizations, and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 in receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of 
America and the International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available 
until expended for carrying out authorized purposes.


                    broadcasting capital improvements


    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of facilities 
for radio and television transmission and reception, and purchase and 
installation of necessary equipment for radio and television 
transmission and reception as authorized, $10,893,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized.

       General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agency

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States Code; for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and for hire of passenger transportation 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this title may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:

[[Page 119 STAT. 2326]]

Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors in this title may be transferred between such appropriations, 
but no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: 
Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.>> None of 
the funds made available in this title may be used by the Department of 
State or the Broadcasting Board of Governors to provide equipment, 
technical support, consulting services, or any other form of assistance 
to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

    Sec. 404. (a) The Senior Policy Operating Group on Trafficking in 
Persons, established under section 406 of division B of Public Law 108-7 
to coordinate agency activities regarding policies (including grants and 
grant policies) involving the international trafficking in persons, 
shall coordinate all such policies related to the activities of 
traffickers and victims of severe forms of trafficking.
    (b) None of the funds provided in this or any other Act shall be 
expended to perform functions that duplicate coordinating 
responsibilities of the Operating Group.
    (c) The Operating Group shall continue to report only to the 
authorities that appointed them pursuant to section 406 of division B of 
Public Law 108-7.
    Sec. 405. <<NOTE: Records. Israel.>> For the purposes of 
registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a 
passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the 
Secretary of State shall, upon request of the citizen, record the place 
of birth as Israel.

    Sec. 406. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'': $5,000,000 shall be made available for an endowment for the 
Center for Asian Democracy; $100,000 shall be made available for a grant 
to the Center for the Study of the Presidency for a public diplomacy 
initiative; $300,000 shall be made available for a grant to Operation 
Smile for a public diplomacy program; and $350,000 shall be made 
available for a grant to MiraMed for programs to combat human 
trafficking.
    Sec. 407. Funds appropriated under this title for the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors and the Department of State may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 408. (a) Funds provided in this title for the following 
accounts shall be made available for programs in the amounts contained 
in the respective tables included in the report accompanying this Act:
            ``Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs''.
            ``National Endowment for Democracy''.
            ``International Broadcasting Operations''.
            ``Broadcasting Capital Improvements''.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2327]]

    (b) Any proposed increases or decreases to the amounts contained in 
such tables in the accompanying report shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures in section 605 of this Act.
    (c) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> The Secretary of State shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations 15 days in advance of 
recommending the issuance of any license subject to Executive Order No. 
13067.

    Sec. 409. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this title, not more than 
$1,035,500,000 shall be available for payment to the United Nations for 
assessed and other expenses of international peacekeeping activities.
    Sec. 410. Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) is amended by striking 
``October 1, 2005'' and inserting ``October 1, 2006''.
    Sec. 411. <<NOTE: United Nations.>> None of the funds appropriated 
under this title may be made available to pay any contribution of the 
United States to the United Nations if the United Nations implements or 
imposes any taxation on any United States persons.

    Sec. 412. It is the sense of the Congress that the amount of any 
loan for the renovation of the United Nations headquarters building 
located in New York, New York, should not exceed $600,000,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That if any loan exceeds $600,000,000, 
the Secretary of State shall notify the Congress of the current cost of 
the renovation and cost containment measures.

    Sec. 413. <<NOTE: United Nations.>> None of the funds made available 
by this title may be used for any United Nations undertaking when it is 
made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that: (1) the United Nations undertaking is a 
peacekeeping mission; (2) such undertaking will involve United States 
Armed Forces under the command or operational control of a foreign 
national; and (3) the President's military advisors have not submitted 
to the President a recommendation that such involvement is in the 
national security interests of the United States and the President has 
not submitted to the Congress such a recommendation.

    Sec. 414. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this title shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 609 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The requirements in subparagraphs (A) 
and (B) of section 609 of that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal 
year 2006.

    Sec. 415. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this title shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 616 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The requirements in subsections (b) and 
(c) of section 616 of that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal 
year 2006.

    Sec. 416. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), a project to 
construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may not include 
office space or other accommodations for an employee of a Federal agency 
or department if the Secretary of State determines that such department 
or agency has not provided to the Department of State the full amount of 
funding required by subsection (e) of section 604 of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into law by 
section

[[Page 119 STAT. 2328]]

1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G of that 
Act; 113 Stat. 1501A-453), as amended by section 629 of the Departments 
of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2005.
    (b) Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), a project to 
construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may include office 
space or other accommodations for members of the Marine Corps.
    Sec. 417. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this title shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so directs. 
Earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act 
shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this title.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agency Appropriations Act, 2006''.

                        TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                   Antitrust Modernization Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Antitrust Modernization Commission, as 
authorized by Public Law 107-273, $1,172,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad


                          salaries and expenses


    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $499,000, as authorized by section 1303 of Public Law 
99-83.

                       Commission on Civil Rights


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,048,000: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ in excess 
of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted Service 
exclusive of one special assistant for each Commissioner: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with the 
exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable days.

              Commission on International Religious Freedom


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-292), 
$3,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2329]]

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $2,030,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized, $1,900,000, including not 
more than $3,000 for the purpose of official representation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
(29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); non-monetary awards to private citizens; and not to 
exceed $33,000,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies 
for services to the Commission pursuant to title VII of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, sections 6 and 14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment 
Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights 
Act of 1991, $331,228,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized 
to make available for official reception and representation expenses not 
to exceed $2,500 from <<NOTE: Notification.>> available funds: Provided 
further, That the Commission may take no action to implement any 
workforce repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization until such 
time as the Committees on Appropriations have been notified of such 
proposals, in accordance with the reprogramming provisions of section 
605 of this Act.

                    Federal Communications Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $289,771,000: Provided, That $288,771,000 of offsetting 
collections shall be assessed and collected pursuant to section 9 of 
title I of the Communications Act of 1934, shall be retained and used 
for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2006 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation 
estimated

[[Page 119 STAT. 2330]]

at $1,000,000: Provided further, That any offsetting collections 
received in excess of $288,771,000 in fiscal year 2006 shall remain 
available until expended, but shall not be available for obligation 
until October 1, 2006: Provided further, That notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding system that 
may be retained and made available for obligation shall not exceed 
$85,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

                        Federal Trade Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $211,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $116,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall 
be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$23,000,000 in offsetting collections derived from fees sufficient to 
implement and enforce the Telemarketing Sales Rule, promulgated under 
the Telephone Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et 
seq.), shall be credited to this account, and be retained and used for 
necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2006, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2006 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at not more than $72,000,000: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to 
enforce subsection (e) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t) or section 151(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 1831t note).

                       Legal Services Corporation


                payment to the legal services corporation


    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $330,803,000, of 
which $312,375,000 is for basic field programs and required independent 
audits; $2,539,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, of which such 
amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct additional audits of 
recipients; $12,825,000 is for management and administration; $1,255,000 
is for client self-help and information technology; and $1,809,000 is 
for grants to offset losses due to census adjustments.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2331]]

          administrative provision--legal services corporation


    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2005 and 2006, respectively, and except that section 501(a)(1) of 
Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321-51 et seq.) shall not apply to the 
use of the $1,809,000 to address loss of funding due to Census-based 
reallocations.

                        Marine Mammal Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of Public Law 92-522, $2,920,000, of which $920,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2007.

           National Veterans Business Development Corporation

    For necessary expenses of the National Veterans Business Development 
Corporation as authorized under section 33(a) of the Small Business Act, 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $888,117,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which not to exceed $10,000 may be used toward funding a 
permanent secretariat for the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions; and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for 
expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members of their 
delegations, appropriate representatives and staff to exchange views 
concerning developments relating to securities matters, development and 
implementation of cooperation agreements concerning securities matters 
and provision of technical assistance for the development of foreign 
securities markets, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and foreign 
invitees in attendance at such consultations and meetings including: (1) 
such incidental expenses as meals taken in the course of such 
attendance; (2) any travel and transportation to or from such meetings; 
and (3) any other related lodging or subsistence: Provided, That fees 
and charges authorized by sections 6(b) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), and 13(e), 14(g) and 31 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g), and 78ee), shall be 
credited to this account as offsetting collections: Provided further, 
That not to exceed

[[Page 119 STAT. 2332]]

$863,117,000 of such offsetting collections shall be available until 
expended for necessary expenses of this account: Provided further, That 
$25,000,000 shall be derived from prior year unobligated balances from 
funds previously appropriated to the Securities and Exchange Commission: 
Provided further, That the total amount appropriated under this heading 
from the general fund for fiscal year 2006 shall be reduced as such 
offsetting fees are received so as to result in a final total fiscal 
year 2006 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$0.

                      Small Business Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 108-447, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $313,029,000: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized 
to charge fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
Business Administration, and certain loan servicing activities: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from 
all such activities shall be credited to this account, to be available 
for carrying out these purposes without further appropriations: Provided 
further, That $89,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for 
performance in fiscal year 2006 or fiscal year 2007 as authorized: 
Provided further, That the Small Business Administration is authorized 
to award grants under the Women's Business Center Sustainability Pilot 
Program established by section 4(a) of Public Law 106-165 (15 U.S.C. 
656(l)): Provided further, That, of the amounts provided for Women's 
Business Centers, not less than 41 percent shall be available to 
continue Women's Business Centers in sustainability status.


                       office of inspector general


    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$13,900,000.


                  surety bond guarantees revolving fund


    For additional capital for the Surety Bond Guarantees Revolving 
Fund, authorized by the Small Business Investment Act, as amended, 
$2,861,000, to remain available until expended.


                     business loans program account


                     (including transfers of funds)


    For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That subject to section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2006 commitments to 
guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act 
of 1958, shall not exceed the levels established under 20(e)(1)(B)(ii) 
of the Small Business

[[Page 119 STAT. 2333]]

Act: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2006 commitments for 
general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small 
Business Act, shall not exceed the levels established under 
20(e)(1)(B)(i) of the Small Business Act: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 2006 commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under 
section 303(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, shall not 
exceed $3,000,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2006 
guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small 
Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $125,307,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses: Provided, 
That, of the funds previously made available under Public Law 105-135, 
section 507(g), for the Delta Loan program, up to $500,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for Salaries and 
Expenses.


                     disaster loans program account


                     (including transfers of funds)


    From unobligated balances under this heading, in fiscal year 2006, 
not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses for indirect administrative 
expenses, of which $1,500,000 is for the Office of Inspector General of 
the Small Business Administration for audits and reviews of disaster 
loans and the disaster loan program and shall be transferred to and 
merged with appropriations for the Office of Inspector General.


         administrative provision--small business administration


    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Small Business Administration in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         State Justice Institute


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 
102-572), $3,500,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

       United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission, $3,000,000, including not more

[[Page 119 STAT. 2334]]

than $5,000 for the purpose of official representation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                    United States Institute of Peace


                           operating expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace as 
authorized in the United States Institute of Peace Act, $22,350,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2007.

           United States Senate-China Interparliamentary Group


                          salaries and expenses


    For necessary expenses of the United States Senate-China 
Interparliamentary Group, as authorized under section 153 of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 276n; Public Law 108-
99; 118 Stat. 448), $150,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2007.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> None of the funds 
provided under this Act, or provided under previous appropriations Acts 
to the agencies funded by this Act that remain available for obligation 
or expenditure in fiscal year 2006, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project or 
activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) relocates 
an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices; (6) 
reorganizes, programs or activities; or (7) contracts out or privatizes 
any functions or activities presently performed by Federal employees; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2335]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> None of the funds provided 
under this Act, or provided under previous appropriations Acts to the 
agencies funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2006, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through 
a reprogramming of funds in excess of $750,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities; 
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, project, or 
activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as approved by Congress; 
or (3) results from any general savings, including savings from a 
reduction in personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 
days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.

    Sec. 606. <<NOTE: Religious harrasment.>> Hereafter, none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used to implement, administer, 
or enforce any guidelines of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
covering harassment based on religion, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which such funds are made available that 
such guidelines do not differ in any respect from the proposed 
guidelines published by the Commission on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 
51266).

    Sec. 607. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or 
subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, pursuant to the 
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 608. <<NOTE: Records.>> The Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Broadcasting Board of Governors, the National Science 
Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
Federal Communications Commission, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the Small Business Administration shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House of 
Representatives a quarterly accounting of the cumulative balances of any 
unobligated funds that were received by such agency during any previous 
fiscal year.

    Sec. 609. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to 
authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use 
of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2336]]

    Sec. 610. <<NOTE: Tobacco and tobacco products.>> None of the funds 
provided by this Act shall be available to promote the sale or export of 
tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any 
foreign country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco 
products, except for restrictions which are not applied equally to all 
tobacco or tobacco products of the same type.

    Sec.  611. <<NOTE: Firearms.>> None of the funds appropriated 
pursuant to this Act or any other provision of law may be used for--
            (1) the implementation of any tax or fee in connection with 
        the implementation of subsection 922(t) of title 18, United 
        States Code; and
            (2) any system to implement subsection 922(t) of title 18, 
        United States Code, that does not require and result in the 
        destruction of any identifying information submitted by or on 
        behalf of any person who has been determined not to be 
        prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm no more than 
        24 hours after the system advises a Federal firearms licensee 
        that possession or receipt of a firearm by the prospective 
        transferee would not violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 
        922 of title 18, United States Code, or State law.

    Sec. 612. <<NOTE: 42 USC 10601 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, amounts deposited or available in the Fund established 
under 42 U.S.C. 10601 in any fiscal year in excess of $625,000,000 shall 
not be available for obligation until the following fiscal year.

    Sec. 613. For additional amounts under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration, Salaries and Expenses'', $1,000,000 shall be available 
for the Adelante Development Center, Inc., NM; $850,000 shall be 
available for the Alabama Department of Archives and History, 
Montgomery, AL; $500,000 shall be available for the Alabama Humanities 
Foundation for a Statewide Initiative; $1,500,000 shall be available for 
Alabama State Docks Economic Development; $200,000 shall be available 
for the Alaska Small Business Development Center; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the Alcorn State University Judicial Threat Analysis 
Center; $775,000 shall be available for Ben Franklin Technology Partners 
Translational Action Research Boards, Philadelphia, PA; $1,000,000 shall 
be available for the Bring Back Broad Street Initiative, Mobile, AL; 
$450,000 shall be available for the City of Guin, AL, Industrial 
Development Initiative; $250,000 shall be available for the City of 
Monroeville, AL, Community Enrichment Project; $300,000 shall be 
available for the City of Oneonta, AL, for industrial development; 
$500,000 shall be available for the City of Richland Revitalization 
Project; $100,000 shall be available for community development in 
Randolph County, AL; $275,000 shall be available for the Community 
Development Project, Huntsville, AL; $500,000 shall be available for 
economic development in Lamar County, AL; $100,000 shall be available 
for the Great Lakes Business Growth and Development Center at Lorain 
County Community College; $200,000 shall be available for the Greenville 
Waterfront Industrial Enhancement Project; $50,000 shall be available 
for the Houston Community College Multi-Cultural Business Center; 
$75,000 shall be available for the Idaho Virtual Incubator at Lewis-
Clark State College; $500,000 shall be available for Industrial 
Infrastructure in Hartselle, AL; $5,000,000 shall be available for the 
Industrial Outreach Service at Mississippi State University; $450,000 
shall be available for infrastructure development in Chambers County,

[[Page 119 STAT. 2337]]

AL; $200,000 shall be available for the Investnet/Technology Venture 
Center partnership for Alaska and Montana; $200,000 shall be available 
for the Knoxville College Small Business Incubator Program; $350,000 
shall be available for the LeFleur Lakes Flood Control/Pearl River 
Watershed project; $750,000 shall be available for the Manufacturing 
Technology Initiative at Mississippi State University; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Mississippi Children's Museum; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the Mississippi Film Enterprise Zone; $1,250,000 shall be 
available for the Mississippi Technology Alliance Economic Development 
Plan; $500,000 shall be available for the Mitchell Memorial Library for 
the digitization of special collections; $500,000 shall be available for 
the Montgomery, AL, Downtown Revitalization Project; $650,000 shall be 
available for the New Product Development and Commercialization Center 
for Rural Manufacturers; $2,100,000 shall be available for the Oak Ridge 
National Laboratory for the Southeastern fiber optic project (Lambda 
Rail); $500,000 shall be available for the Old Fort McClellan Economic 
Development Initiative, Anniston, AL; $75,000 shall be available for the 
Pro-Tech Program at the College of Southern Idaho; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Shelby County, AL, Environmental Education Center; 
$2,000,000 shall be available for Small Business Development Centers in 
Mississippi; $100,000 shall be available for the South Carolina 
International Center for Automotive Research Park Innovation Center; 
$250,000 shall be available for the Technology Venture Center, MT; 
$25,000 shall be available for the Town of Millry, AL, for community 
development; $1,000,000 shall be available for the Toxin Alert 
Development Project at the University of Southern Mississippi; $500,000 
shall be available for the Troy University Center for International 
Business and Economic Development; $900,000 shall be available for the 
Tuck School of Business/MBDA Partnership; $150,000 shall be available 
for the University of Alabama Community Development project; $350,000 
shall be available for the University of West Alabama Regional Center 
for Community and Economic Development; $1,000,000 shall be available 
for the Women's Entrepreneurship Initiative at the Mississippi 
University for Women; $500,000 shall be available for the Montana 
Department of Administration for spatial data to enable economic 
development; $500,000 shall be available for the City of Fort Wayne, 
Indiana for the Institute for Orthopedic Biomaterials Research; 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the New Mexico State University 
Arrowhead Center; $1,000,000 shall be available for the New Mexico 
Community Development Loan Fund/WESSTCorp. Cooperative; $1,500,000 shall 
be available for the Inland Northwest Regional GigaPop Network 
Connectivity project; $300,000 shall be available for the Brooklyn, NY 
Chamber of Commerce for the Brooklyn Goes Global program; $500,000 shall 
be available for the Institute for Technology and Business Development 
at Central Connecticut State University; $500,000 shall be available for 
the Iowa Department of Economic Development for the Entrepreneurial 
Venture Assistance Project; $400,000 shall be available for the New 
Ventures Center in Davenport in Iowa; $400,000 shall be available for 
the Pappajohn Higher Education Center in Des Moines, Iowa; $250,000 
shall be available for the University of Vermont Small Enterprise 
Research Initiative; $200,000 shall be available for the Genesis of 
Innovation in Rapid City, South Dakota; $500,000 shall be available for 
the Wisconsin Security Research Consortium, a collaboration between

[[Page 119 STAT. 2338]]

the University of Wisconsin System and the Wisconsin Technology Council; 
$500,000 shall be available for the Rowan University Technology Center 
and Business Incubator; $1,500,000 shall be available for the Vermont 
Center for Emerging Technologies; $500,000 shall be available for the 
Vermont Employee Ownership Center; $820,000 shall be available for the 
Central Michigan University Center for Applied Research and Technology; 
$500,000 shall be available for the Nanotechnology Economic Development 
Program at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock; $1,100,000 shall 
be available for the University of Arkansas' Research and Technology 
Park; $600,000 shall be available for the Maryland Technology 
Development Corporation for the Minority R&D Initiative; $1,000,000 
shall be available for the University of West Florida's Statewide Small 
Business Development Center Network; $200,000 shall be available for the 
Nevada's Commission on Economic Development; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the Clark County Department of Aviation, Las Vegas, Nevada 
to study and operate the international air trade show; $250,000 shall be 
available for the Corona-Elmhurst Center for Economic Development, New 
York; $180,000 shall be available for the Sephardic Angel Fund, New York 
City; $500,000 shall be available for the Detroit Economic Growth 
Business Attraction Program; $250,000 shall be available for the Oregon 
Department of Consumer and Business Services' One-Stop Permitting 
Portal; $250,000 shall be available for the Fossil Bed Park and Ancient 
Lands Field House; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Cedar Creek 
Battlefield Foundation; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Belle Grove 
Plantation; $250,000 shall be for a grant to Shenandoah University for a 
facility; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Winchester-Frederick 
Convention and Visitor Bureau; $2,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
Virginia Community College System for a web portal; $200,000 shall be 
for a grant to Americans at War; $500,000 shall be for a grant to Warren 
County, Virginia, for a community enhancement project; $2,000,000 shall 
be available for the United States-China Economic and Security Review 
Commission for projects to study Chinese policies and practices and 
their impacts on American interests, the American economy, and small 
businesses; $200,000 shall be for a grant to the Myrtle Beach 
International Trade and Convention Center; $575,000 shall be for a grant 
to the Innovation and Outreach Center at the University of Mississippi; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to Competitive Manufacturing through 
Innovation Management at the University of Wisconsin Oshkosh; $200,000 
shall be for a grant to Business and Industrial Incubator in Cushing, 
Oklahoma; $500,000 shall be for a grant to Patrick Henry Community 
College for a workforce development program; $500,000 shall be for a 
grant to Danville Community College for a workforce development program; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to Advanced and Applied Polymer Processing 
Institute; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Industrial Development 
Authority of Halifax, VA; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the 
University of Illinois for the Information Trust Initiative; $1,000,000 
shall be for a grant to Aurora, IL, for construction and other 
activities related to community development; $200,000 shall be for a 
grant to Carnegie Mellon University for a Community-Based Demonstration 
Project; $500,000 shall be for a grant to REI Rural Business and 
Resource Center in Seminole, Oklahoma; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant 
to Appalachian State University; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
Western Carolina University for a computer engineering program; 
$1,000,000

[[Page 119 STAT. 2339]]

shall be for a grant to International Small Business and Trade 
Institute; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the Illinois Institute for 
Technology to examine and assess advancements in biotechnologies; 
$3,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Southern and Eastern Kentucky 
Tourism Development Association; $2,500,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Southern and Eastern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation; 
$1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the National Center for Community 
Renewal; $250,000 shall be for a grant to Advanced Business Technology 
Incubator at College of the Canyons; $250,000 shall be for a grant to 
the Applied Competitive Technologies Program of the California Community 
Colleges; $250,000 shall be for a grant to Adirondack Champlain Fiber 
Network; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Amoskeag Business Incubator; 
$500,000 shall be for a grant to the Montana World Trade Center; 
$1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Fairplex Trade and Conference 
Center; $220,000 shall be for a grant to Virtual Business Incubator in 
Southeast Pennsylvania; $250,000 shall be for a grant to the Rochester 
Tooling and Machining Association; $600,000 shall be for a grant to 
Wittenberg University to expand business education; $500,000 shall be 
for a grant to Experience Works to expand opportunities for older 
workers; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to Innovation Center in Peoria, 
Illinois; $1,250,000 shall be for a grant to North Iowa Area Community 
College business incubator; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
University of Redlands for development of a center to assist small 
business; $500,000 shall be for a grant to McHenry County Economic 
Development Corporation; $300,000 shall be for a grant to Rockford Area 
Ventures in Rockford, Illinois; $1,100,000 shall be for a grant to Ohio 
Ready to Work program; $530,000 shall be for a grant to Michigan State 
University for the Institute for Trade in the Americas; $500,000 shall 
be for a grant to Bridgeport Regional Business Council for an economic 
integration initiative; $100,000 shall be for a grant to Cedarbridge 
Development Corporation for a redevelopment initiative; $100,000 shall 
be for a grant to the Heart of Florida Regional Coalition; $150,000 
shall be for a grant to Syracuse, NY, for a small business community 
support program; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the Connect the Valley 
initiative; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the Chattanooga Enterprise 
Center for a demonstration project; $150,000 shall be available for a 
grant to St. Jerome Church for their community center project and 
programs in the Bronx, New York; $50,000 shall be available for a grant 
to establish the Tito Puente Legacy Project at Hostos Community College 
in New York; $150,000 shall be available for a grant to the Bronx 
Council on the Arts for its Arts Cultural Corridor Project to promote 
local arts initiatives; $50,000 shall be available for a grant to the 
South Bronx Action Group to provide housing related services to the 
community; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to Pro Co Technology, 
Inc. for their programs in the Bronx, New York; $150,000 shall be 
available for a grant to Bronx Shepherds for community programs; 
$200,000 shall be available for a grant to HOGAR, Inc. in the Bronx, New 
York; $50,000 shall be available for a grant to the Promesa Foundation 
to provide financial assistance to New York area families under a youth 
sports and recreational initiative; $100,000 shall be available for a 
grant to Promesa Enterprises in New York for infrastructure program 
support; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to Presbyterian Senior 
Services for capital costs for their Grandparent

[[Page 119 STAT. 2340]]

Family Apartments project in the Bronx, New York; $50,000 shall be 
available for a grant to World Vision's Bronx Storehouse for services in 
the community; $50,000 shall be available for a grant to the Bronx River 
Alliance for its services in the Bronx, New York; $600,000 shall be 
available to the Downtown Huntsville Small Business Enhancement 
Initiative; $150,000 shall be available for the Rhode Island College for 
the Project FLIP (Financial and Functional Literacy Incentive Program); 
$750,000 shall be available for the Rhode Island School of Design in 
Providence, Rhode Island; $100,000 shall be available for the Newport 
County Chamber of Commerce for the Aquidneck Island Corporate Park 
Capital Program; $700,000 shall be available for the American Cities 
Foundation (ACF) Economic Development Initiative; $300,000 shall be 
available for CAP Services in Stevens Point, WI; $500,000 shall be 
available for the Northwest Regional Planning Commission; $400,000 shall 
be available for the Wisconsin Procurement Institute; $250,000 shall be 
for the JARI Workforce Development Program; $250,000 shall be for the 
JARI Small Business Technology Center; $400,000 shall be for the 
Economic Growth Connection Procurement Assistance Program; $300,000 
shall be for the Franklin County, Massachusetts Community Development 
Corporation for a rural economic growth program; $1,870,000 shall be 
available for a grant to the MountainMade Foundation to fulfill its 
charter purposes and to continue the initiative developed by the NTTC 
for outreach and promotion, business and sites development, the 
education of artists and craftspeople, and to promote small businesses, 
artisans and their products through market development, advertisement, 
commercial sale and other promotional means; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the INNOVA small business incubator; $30,000 shall be 
available for the Town of Hambleton for upgrades and renovations to the 
town hall; $100,000 shall be available for the Parsons Revitalization 
Organization for planning purposes; $100,000 shall be available for 
Rowlesburg Revitalization Committee for neighborhood revitalization; 
$500,000 shall be available for the Institute for Entrepreneurship, 
Small Business Development and Global Logistics at California State 
University at Dominguez Hills, California; $300,000 shall be available 
for Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation in Brooklyn, New York to 
support and expand the Initiative for a Competitive Brooklyn; and 
$200,000 shall be available for the Local Development Corporation of 
East New York for the Brooklyn Enterprise Center.
    Sec.  614. <<NOTE: Discrimination.>> None of the funds made 
available to the Department of Justice in this Act may be used to 
discriminate against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of 
students who participate in programs for which financial assistance is 
provided from those funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of such 
students.

    Sec. 615. <<NOTE: Loans. Alaska. North Dakota.>> All disaster loans 
issued in Alaska or North Dakota shall be administered by the Small 
Business Administration and shall not be sold during fiscal year 2006.

    Sec. 616. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 617. <<NOTE: Deadline. Certification. Telecommuting. 5 USC 6120 
note.>> The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the Small Business Administration shall, not 
later than two months after the date

[[Page 119 STAT. 2341]]

of the enactment of this Act, certify that telecommuting opportunities 
have increased over levels certified to the Committees on Appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005: Provided, That, of the total amounts appropriated 
to the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Small Business Administration, $5,000,000 
shall be available to each only upon such certification: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That each Department or agency shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations on the status of 
telecommuting programs, including the number and percentage of Federal 
employees eligible for, and participating in, such programs: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Designation.>> That each Department or agency shall 
maintain a ``Telework Coordinator'' to be responsible for overseeing the 
implementation and operations of telecommuting programs, and serve as a 
point of contact on such programs for the Committees on Appropriations.

    Sec. 618. With the consent of the President, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall represent the United States Government in negotiating and 
monitoring international agreements regarding fisheries, marine mammals, 
or sea turtles: Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall be 
responsible for the development and interdepartmental coordination of 
the policies of the United States with respect to the international 
negotiations and agreements referred to in this section.
    Sec. 619. <<NOTE: Deadline. Certification. Telecommuting.>> The 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science 
Foundation shall, not later than two months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, certify that telecommuting opportunities are made 
available to 100 percent of the eligible workforce: Provided, That, of 
the total amounts appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration and the National Science Foundation, $5,000,000 shall be 
available to each agency only upon 
such <<NOTE: Reports.>> certification: Provided further, That both 
agencies shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the status of telecommuting programs, including the 
number of Federal employees eligible for, and participating in, such 
programs: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Designation.>> both agencies 
shall designate a ``Telework Coordinator'' to be responsible for 
overseeing the implementation and operations of telecommuting programs, 
and serve as a point of contact on such programs for the Committees on 
Appropriations.

    Sec. 620. Any funds provided in this Act used to implement E-
Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 605 of this Act.
    Sec. 621. (a) <<NOTE: Firearms.>> Tracing studies conducted by the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are released without 
adequate disclaimers regarding the limitations of the data.

    (b) The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives shall 
include in all such data releases, language similar to the following 
that would make clear that trace data cannot be used to draw broad 
conclusions about firearms-related crime:
            (1) Firearm traces are designed to assist law enforcement 
        authorities in conducting investigations by tracking the sale 
        and possession of specific firearms. Law enforcement agencies 
        may request firearms traces for any reason, and those reasons 
        are not necessarily reported to the Federal Government. Not all 
        firearms used in crime are traced and not all firearms traced 
        are used in crime.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2342]]

            (2) Firearms selected for tracing are not chosen for 
        purposes of determining which types, makes or models of firearms 
        are used for illicit purposes. The firearms selected do not 
        constitute a random sample and should not be considered 
        representative of the larger universe of all firearms used by 
        criminals, or any subset of that universe. Firearms are normally 
        traced to the first retail seller, and sources reported for 
        firearms traced do not necessarily represent the sources or 
        methods by which firearms in general are acquired for use in 
        crime.

    Sec. 622. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change its 
rules or regulations for universal service support payments to implement 
the February 27, 2004 recommendations of the Federal-State Joint Board 
on Universal Service regarding single connection or primary line 
restrictions on universal service support payments.
    Sec. 623. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to issue patents on claims directed to or 
encompassing a human organism.
    Sec. 624. <<NOTE: Torture.>> None of the funds made available in 
this Act shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
use of torture by any official or contract employee of the United States 
Government.

    Sec. 625. Of the amounts made available in this Act, $393,616,321 
from ``Department of State''; $27,938,072 from ``Department of 
Justice''; $14,107,754 from ``Department of Commerce''; $426,314 from 
``United States Trade Representative''; $575,116 from ``Broadcasting 
Board of Governors''; $291,855 from ``National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration''; and $79,754 from ``National Science Foundation'' shall 
be available for the purposes of implementing the Capital Security Cost 
Sharing program.
    Sec. 626. <<NOTE: Certification.>> None of the funds made available 
to NASA in this Act may be used for voluntary separation incentive 
payments as provided for in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, 
United States Code, unless the Administrator of NASA has first certified 
to Congress that such payments would not result in the loss of skills 
related to the safety of the Space Shuttle or the International Space 
Station or to the conduct of independent safety oversight in the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

    Sec. 627. Notwithstanding 40 U.S.C. 524, 571, and 572, the 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration may 
sell the National Aeronautics and Space Administration-owned property on 
the Camp Parks Military Reservation, Alameda County, California.
    Sec.  628. (a) In General.--The <<NOTE: President. Guidelines. 42 
USC 2451 note.>> President of the United States through his designee the 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and 
in consultation with other Federal agencies shall develop a national 
aeronautics policy to guide the aeronautics programs of the 
Administration through 2020.

    (b) Content.--At a minimum, the national aeronautics policy shall 
describe--
            (1) the priority areas of research for aeronautics through 
        fiscal year 2011;
            (2) the basis on which and the process by which priorities 
        for ensuing fiscal years will be selected;
            (3) the facilities and personnel needed to carry out the 
        program through fiscal year 2011; and

[[Page 119 STAT. 2343]]

            (4) the budget assumptions on which the national aeronautics 
        policy is based.

    (c) Considerations.--In <<NOTE: President.>> developing the national 
aeronautics policy, the President shall consider the following 
questions, which shall be discussed in the policy statement--
            (1) the extent to which NASA should focus on long-term, 
        high-risk research or more incremental research or both and the 
        expected impact on the U.S. aircraft and airline industries of 
        those decisions;
            (2) the extent to which NASA should address military and 
        commercial needs;
            (3) how NASA will coordinate its aeronautics program with 
        other Federal agencies; and
            (4) the extent to which NASA will fund university research 
        and the expected impact of that funding on the supply of U.S. 
        workers for the aeronautics industry.

    (d) Consultation.--In developing the national aeronautics policy, 
the Administrator shall consult widely with academic and industry 
experts and with other Federal agencies. The Administrator may enter 
into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to help 
develop the national aeronautics policy.
    (e) Schedule.--The Administrator shall submit the new national 
aeronautics policy to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
and to the House Committee on Science and the Senate Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation within one year of enactment of 
this Act. The Administrator shall make available to the Congress any 
study done by a non-governmental entity that was used in the development 
of the national aeronautics policy.
    Sec. 629. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
Act or any other Act may be expended or obligated by a department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States to pay administrative 
expenses or to compensate an officer or employee of the United States in 
connection with requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms listed in 
Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations 
(International Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it 
existed on April 1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 
wholesale in any transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection 
(b) of this section are met by the exporting party for such articles.
    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
        Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
        from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
        States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
        enumerated in subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components and 
                parts for such firearms, other than for end use by the 
                Federal Government, or a Provincial or Municipal 
                Government of Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or 
                complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or

[[Page 119 STAT. 2344]]

                    (C) articles for export from Canada to another 
                foreign destination.

    (c) <<NOTE: Canada.>> In accordance with this section, the District 
Directors of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
temporary export without a license of any unclassified articles 
specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return to 
the United States, or temporary import of Canadian-origin items from 
Canada for end use in the United States or return to Canada for a 
Canadian citizen.

    (d) <<NOTE: President. Federal Register, publication.>> The 
President may require export licenses under this section on a temporary 
basis if the President determines, upon publication first in the Federal 
Register, that the Government of Canada has implemented or maintained 
inadequate import controls for the articles specified in subsection (a), 
such that a significant diversion of such articles has and continues to 
take place for use in international terrorism or in the escalation of a 
conflict in another nation. <<NOTE: President.>> The President shall 
terminate the requirements of a license when reasons for the temporary 
requirements have ceased.

    Sec. 630. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated 
funds under this Act or any other Act shall obligate or expend in any 
way such funds to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the United States to deny any application 
submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 
27 CFR Sec. 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import United States origin 
``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or ammunition.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the text 
of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-Morocco 
        Free Trade Agreement.

    Sec. 632. <<NOTE: Gasoline and petroleum.>> Of the funds 
appropriated to the Federal Trade Commission by this Act, not less than 
$1,000,000 shall be used by the Commission to conduct an immediate 
investigation into nationwide gasoline prices in the aftermath of 
Hurricane Katrina: Provided, That the investigation shall include: (1) 
any evidence of price-gouging by companies with total United States 
wholesale sales of gasoline and petroleum distillates for calendar 2004 
in excess of $500,000,000 and by any retail distributor of gasoline and 
petroleum distillates against which multiple formal complaints (that 
identify the location of a particular retail distributor and provide 
contact information for the complainant) of price-gouging were filed in 
August or September, 2005, with a Federal or State consumer protection 
agency; (2) a comparison of, and an explanation of the reasons for 
changes in, profit levels of such companies during the 12-month period 
ending on August 31, 2005, and their profit levels for the month of 
September, 2005, including information for particular companies on a 
basis that does not permit the identification of any company to which 
the information relates; (3) a summary of tax expenditures (as defined 
in section 3(3) of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act 
of 1974 (2

[[Page 119 STAT. 2345]]

U.S.C. 622(3)) for such companies; (4) the effects of increased gasoline 
prices and gasoline price-gouging on economic activity in the United 
States; and (5) the overall cost of increased gasoline prices and 
gasoline price-gouging to the economy, including the impact on 
consumers' purchasing power in both declared State and National disaster 
areas and elsewhere: Provided further, That, in conducting its 
investigation, the Commission shall treat as evidence of price-gouging 
any finding that the average price of gasoline available for sale to the 
public in September, 2005, or thereafter in a market area located in an 
area designated as a State or National disaster area because of 
Hurricane Katrina, or in any other area where price-gouging complaints 
have been filed because of Hurricane Katrina with a Federal or State 
consumer protection agency, exceeded the average price of such gasoline 
in that area for the month of August, 2005, unless the Commission finds 
substantial evidence that the increase is substantially attributable to 
additional costs in connection with the production, transportation, 
delivery, and sale of gasoline in that area or to national or 
international market trends: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That in any areas of markets in which 
the Commission determines price increases are due to factors other than 
the additional costs, it shall also notify the appropriate State agency 
of its <<NOTE: Reports. Deadlines.>> findings: Provided further, That 
the Commission shall provide information on the progress of the 
investigation to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees, the 
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House 
of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce every 30 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, shall provide those Committees a 
written interim report 90 days after such date, and shall transmit a 
final report to those Committees, together with its findings and 
recommendations, no later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That the Commission shall transmit 
recommendations, based on its findings, to the Congress for any 
legislation necessary to protect consumers from gasoline price-gouging 
in both State and National disaster areas and elsewhere: Provided 
further, That chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, does not apply 
to the collection of information for the investigation required by this 
section: Provided further, That if, during the investigation, the 
Commission obtains evidence that a person may have violated a criminal 
law, the Commission may transmit that evidence to appropriate Federal or 
State authorities: Provided further, That nothing in this section 
affects any other authority of the Commission to disclose information.

    Sec. 633. Section 302 of the Universal Service Antideficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 3998.>> is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2005,'' each place it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2006,''.

    Sec. 634. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees of 
agencies or departments of the United States Government who are 
stationed in the United States, at any single international conference 
occurring outside the United States, unless the Secretary of State 
determines that such attendance is in the national interest: Provided, 
That for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference attended by representatives of the United States 
Government and representatives of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2346]]

    Sec. 635. (a) Modification <<NOTE: Reports. 22 USC 7002 note.>> of 
Responsibilities.--Notwithstanding any provision of section 1238 of the 
Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 
(22 U.S.C. 7002), or any other provision of law, the United States-China 
Economic and Security Review Commission established by subsection (b) of 
that section shall investigate and report exclusively on each of the 
following areas:
            (1) Proliferation practices.--The role of the People's 
        Republic of China in the proliferation of weapons of mass 
        destruction and other weapons (including dual use technologies), 
        including actions the United States might take to encourage the 
        People's Republic of China to cease such practices.
            (2) Economic transfers.--The qualitative and quantitative 
        nature of the transfer of United States production activities to 
        the People's Republic of China, including the relocation of high 
        technology, manufacturing, and research and development 
        facilities, the impact of such transfers on United States 
        national security, the adequacy of United States export control 
        laws, and the effect of such transfers on United States economic 
        security and employment.
            (3) Energy.--The effect of the large and growing economy of 
        the People's Republic of China on world energy supplies and the 
        role the United States can play (including through joint 
        research and development efforts and technological assistance) 
        in influencing the energy policy of the People's Republic of 
        China.
            (4) Access to united states capital markets.--The extent of 
        access to and use of United States capital markets by the 
        People's Republic of China, including whether or not existing 
        disclosure and transparency rules are adequate to identify 
        People's Republic of China companies engaged in harmful 
        activities.
            (5) Regional economic and security impacts.--The triangular 
        economic and security relationship among the United States, 
        Taipei, and the People's Republic of China (including the 
        military modernization and force deployments of the People's 
        Republic of China aimed at Taipei), the national budget of the 
        People's Republic of China, and the fiscal strength of the 
        People's Republic of China in relation to internal instability 
        in the People's Republic of China and the likelihood of the 
        externalization of problems arising from such internal 
        instability.
            (6) United states-china bilateral programs.--Science and 
        technology programs, the degree of non-compliance by the 
        People's Republic of China with agreements between the United 
        States and the People's Republic of China on prison labor 
        imports and intellectual property rights, and United States 
        enforcement policies with respect to such agreements.
            (7) World trade organization compliance.--The compliance of 
        the People's Republic of China with its accession agreement to 
        the World Trade Organization (WTO).
            (8) Freedom of expression.--The implications of restrictions 
        on speech and access to information in the People's Republic of 
        China for its relations with the United States in the areas of 
        economic and security policy.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2347]]

    (b) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act.--Subsection (g) 
of section 1238 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 <<NOTE: 22 USC 7002.>> is amended to read as 
follows:

    ``(g) Applicability of FACA.--The provisions of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the activities of the 
Commission.''.
    Sec. 636. <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 2922.>> Section 635 of division B of 
Public Law 108-447 is amended by striking ``balance'' and inserting 
``and unexpended balances''.

    Sec. 637. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay expenses for any United States delegation to any specialized 
agency, body, or commission of the United Nations if such commission is 
chaired or presided over by a country, the government of which the 
Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), has 
provided support for acts of international terrorism.


                              (rescission)


    Sec. 638. (a) There is hereby rescinded an amount equal to 0.28 
percent of the budget authority provided for in fiscal year 2006 for any 
discretionary account in this Act.
    (b) Any rescission made by subsection (a) shall be applied 
proportionately--
            (1) to each discretionary account and each item of budget 
        authority described in subsection (a); and
            (2) within each such account and item, to each program, 
        project, and activity (with programs, projects, and activities 
        as delineated in the appropriation Act or accompanying reports 
        for the relevant fiscal year covering such account or item, or 
        for accounts and items not included in appropriation Acts, as 
        delineated in the most recently submitted President's budget).

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration


                          working capital fund


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $2,500,000 
are rescinded.

                            Legal Activities


                         assets forfeiture fund


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$102,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2348]]

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                          salaries and expenses


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$25,000,000 are rescinded.

                       Office of Justice Programs


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$110,500,000 are rescinded.


                  community oriented policing services


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$86,500,000 are rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available in accounts under this heading 
from prior year appropriations, $25,000,000 are rescinded.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                    Federal Communications Commission


                          salaries and expenses


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$25,300,000 are rescinded.

                        Federal Trade Commission


                          salaries and expenses


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$12,000,000 are rescinded.

                        Marine Mammal Commission


                          salaries and expenses


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $920,000 
are rescinded.

[[Page 119 STAT. 2349]]

                      Small Business Administration


                          salaries and expenses


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $3,000,000 
are rescinded.


                     business loans program account


                              (rescission)


    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $4,000,000 
are rescinded.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Science, State, Justice, Commerce, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006''.

    Approved November 22, 2005.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2862:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 109-118 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 109-272
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-88 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 151 (2005):
            June 14-16, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 8, 9, 12-15, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 9, House agreed to conference report.
            Nov. 16, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 41 (2005):
            Nov. 22, Presidential statement.