Public Law 108-11
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency wartime supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 
  2003, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 16, 2003 -  [H.R. 1559]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America <<NOTE: Emergency Wartime Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2003.>> in Congress assembled, That the following 
sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2003, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--WAR-RELATED APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      Agricultural Research Service

                        buildings and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Buildings and Facilities'', 
$110,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Public Law 480 Title II Grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For additional expenses during the current fiscal year, not 
otherwise recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including 
interest thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and 
Assistance Act of 1954, $369,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad under title II of said Act: Provided, That from this amount, to 
the maximum extent possible, funding shall be restored to the previously 
approved fiscal year 2003 programs under section 204(a)(2) of the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall transfer to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
$69,000,000 to acquire a quantity of commodities for use in 
administering the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust: Provided further, 
That the authority contained in 7 U.S.C. 1736f-1(c)(4) shall not apply 
during fiscal year 2003 for any release of commodities after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

[[Page 117 STAT. 560]]

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``General Administration, Salaries and 
Expenses'', $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                          counterterrorism fund

    For an additional amount for ``Counterterrorism Fund'', $20,000,000, 
to remain available until December 31, 2003: Provided, That funds 
provided under this paragraph shall be available only after the Attorney 
General notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 605 of 
division B of Public Law 108-7.

                            detention trustee

    For an additional amount for ``Detention Trustee'' for the detention 
of Federal prisoners in the custody of the United States Marshals 
Service, $40,000,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$2,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                            Legal Activities

          salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, United States 
Marshals Service'' for necessary expenses, $8,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Bureau of Investigations, 
Salaries and Expenses'', $367,192,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2004: Provided, That the funds provided under this heading 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in section 605 of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2003.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                  community oriented policing services

    For an additional amount for ``Community Oriented Policing 
Services'', $54,750,000, to remain available until December 31, 2003, 
shall be for the Community Oriented Policing Services, Interoperable 
Communications Technology Program, for grants to States

[[Page 117 STAT. 561]]

and localities to improve communications within and among law 
enforcement agencies: Provided, That the funds provided under this 
heading shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in section 605 of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2003.

                              THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Supreme Court of the United States, 
Salaries and Expenses'' for police enhancements, $1,535,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``United States Court of Appeals for 
the Federal Circuit, Salaries and Expenses'' for court security officer 
expenses, $973,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

               United States Court of International Trade

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``United States Court of International 
Trade, Salaries and Expenses'' to enhance security, $50,000.

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$88,420,000, to remain available until December 31, 2003: Provided, That 
$35,800,000 shall be available for costs associated with the re-
establishment of a United States diplomatic presence in Baghdad, Iraq.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until December 31, 2003.

             embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'', $149,500,000, to remain available until expended.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
Consular Service'', $50,000,000, to remain available until

[[Page 117 STAT. 562]]

expended, which may be transferred to, and merged with, the 
appropriations for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs''.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Broadcasting Board of Governors

                  international broadcasting operations

    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'' for activities related to the Middle East Television 
Network broadcasting to the Middle East and radio broadcasting to Iraq, 
$30,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1201. Funds appropriated under this chapter for the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors and the Department of State may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 313 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, and section 15 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$7,700,000,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$1,600,000,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$1,200,000,000.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$2,800,000,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$3,000,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$100,000,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 563]]

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$16,000,000,000.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$5,100,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $1,650,000,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $7,100,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,200,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $3,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $7,000,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $20,000,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $75,000,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $20,000,000.

                            Iraq Freedom Fund

                           (transfer of funds)

    There is established in the Treasury of the United States a special 
account to be known as the ``Iraq Freedom Fund''. For additional 
expenses for ongoing military operations in Iraq, and

[[Page 117 STAT. 564]]

those operations authorized by Public Law 107-40, and other operations 
and related activities in support of the global war on terrorism, not 
otherwise provided for, necessary to finance the estimated partial costs 
of combat, stability operations (including natural resource risk 
remediation activities), force reconstitution, replacement of munitions 
and equipment, and other costs, there is hereby appropriated 
$15,678,900,000, to remain available for transfer until September 30, 
2004: Provided, That amounts provided under this heading shall be 
available for transfer for the following activities:
            Not less than $1,771,180,000 for classified programs, which 
        shall be in addition to amounts provided for elsewhere in this 
        chapter, and under this heading, for procurement and research, 
        development, test and evaluation;
            Not less than $1,100,000,000 for increased fuel costs, for 
        transfer to ``Defense Working Capital Funds'';
            Up to $1,400,000,000 for transfer to ``Operation and 
        Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', only for purposes further specified 
        in section 1310 of this chapter;
            Up to $489,300,000 for transfer to the ``Natural Resources 
        Risk Remediation Fund'';
            Up to $400,000,000 for transfer to Department of Homeland 
        Security, ``United States Coast Guard, Operating Expenses'', to 
        support military activities in connection with operations in and 
        around Iraq and the global war on terrorism;
            Up to $57,600,000 for research, development, test, and 
        evaluation; and
            Up to $25,000,000 for counter-terrorism military training 
        activities for foreign governments in connection with the global 
        war on terrorism, including equipment, supplies and services, on 
        such terms as the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
        the Secretary of State and 15 days following submission of a 
        financial plan for the use of such funds to the congressional 
        defense committees, may determine:

Provided further, That in addition to the transfers authorized in the 
preceding proviso, the Secretary of Defense may transfer the funds 
provided herein to appropriations for military personnel; operation and 
maintenance; Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster Assistance, and Civic Aid; 
procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; military 
construction; the Defense Health Program appropriation; and working 
capital funds: Provided further, That the funds transferred under this 
heading shall be merged with and shall be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period, as the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in 
this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer authority available 
to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to 
this <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> appropriation: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 5 days prior to 
making transfers from this appropriation, notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the details of any such transfer: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit a report no later than July 1, 2003, and then 30 
days after the end of each fiscal quarter to the congressional defense 
committees summarizing the details of the transfer of funds from this 
appropriation.

[[Page 117 STAT. 565]]

                 Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund

                           (transfer of funds)

    There is established in the Treasury of the United States a special 
account to be known as the ``Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund''. 
Funds transferred to, appropriated to, and contributions made to, the 
Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund may be made available for 
expenses necessary, in and around Iraq, to address emergency fire 
fighting, repair of damage to oil facilities and related infrastructure, 
and preserve a distribution capability, and may remain available until 
expended: Provided, That up to $489,300,000 of the funds appropriated to 
the Iraq Freedom Fund in this Act may be transferred to this fund: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may accept from any 
person, foreign government, or international organization, and credit to 
this fund, any contribution of money for such purposes: Provided 
further, That funds available in the Defense Cooperation Account may be 
transferred to and merged with the Natural Resources Risk Remediation 
Fund: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds 
available in the Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund to other 
appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense to carry out such 
purposes, or to reimburse such appropriations or funds for expenses 
incurred for such purposes: Provided further, That funds so transferred 
shall be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriation or fund to which 
transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in 
this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer authority available 
to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided, such amounts 
may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided further, That in 
administering the Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund during fiscal 
year 2003, the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds from the Iraq 
Freedom Fund only to the extent that amounts transferred from the 
Defense Cooperation Account and amounts accepted pursuant to the 
authority of the second proviso of this paragraph are not currently 
available: Provided further, That, hereafter, contributions of money 
deposited into the Natural Resources Risk Remediation Fund shall be 
reported to the Congress in the same report, and under the same terms 
and conditions, as the report required for contributions to the Defense 
Cooperation Account under section 2608, chapter 155 of title 10, United 
States Code: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit a report no later than 30 days after 
the end of each fiscal quarter to the congressional defense committees 
of any transfer of funds from this appropriation.

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$4,100,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 566]]

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$3,100,000.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $53,300,000.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$447,500,000.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$241,800,000.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$113,600,000.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$451,000,000.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $11,500,000.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $70,000,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2004.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$501,700,000 for Operation and maintenance.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $34,000,000.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1301. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this 
chapter, amounts provided to the Department of Defense under

[[Page 117 STAT. 567]]

each of the headings in this chapter shall be available for the same 
time period, and subject to the same terms and conditions, as the 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248) and Making Further 
Continuing Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 2003, and for Other 
Purposes (Public Law 108-7).
    Sec. 1302. None of the funds provided in this chapter may be used to 
finance programs or activities denied by Congress in previous fiscal 
year 2003 appropriations acts which make appropriations to the 
Department of Defense or to initiate a procurement or research, 
development, test and evaluation new start program without prior 
notification to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 1303. None of the funds in this chapter may be used to develop 
or procure any item or capability that will not be fielded within 4 
years of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 1304. (a) Title II of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248), is <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1522.>> amended 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' by 
striking ``$25,000,000'' and inserting ``$50,000,000''.

    (b) During fiscal year 2003 and notwithstanding the limitations in 
section 166a(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, of the total amount 
available under such heading for the CINC initiative fund account (as 
amended by subsection (a)), not more than $15,000,000 may be used for 
the purpose described in subparagraph (A) of such section 166a(e)(1), 
not more than $10,000,000 may be used for the purpose described in 
subparagraph (B) of such section, and not more than $10,000,000 may be 
used for the purpose described in subparagraph (C) of such section.
    Sec. 1305. Title II of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
2003 (Public Law 107-248), is <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1522.>> amended under 
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' by striking 
``$34,500,000'' and inserting ``$50,000,000''.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1306. Section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248), <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1537.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$2,000,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$2,500,000,000'';
            (2) by striking ``May 31, 2003'' and inserting ``June 30, 
        2003''; and
            (3) by striking the sixth proviso, as added by section 112 
        of division M of Public Law 108-7, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
        536.>> beginning with ``: Provided further,'' and ending with 
        ``to which transferred''.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1307. In addition to amounts made available elsewhere in this 
Act for the Department of Defense, $165,000,000 is appropriated to the 
Department of Defense to reimburse applicable appropriations for the 
value of drawdown support provided by the Department of Defense under 
the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not increase the limitation set forth in section 
202(b) of that Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
transfer the funds provided herein to the applicable appropriations of 
the Department of Defense: Provided further, That the funds transferred 
shall be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and

[[Page 117 STAT. 568]]

for the same time period as the appropriation to which transferred: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
is in addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
Department of Defense: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds provided in this or any other 
appropriations Act for the Department of Defense may be used for the 
drawdown authority in section 202 of the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act 
of 2002 (Public Law 107-327) prior to notifying in writing the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations of the source of the funds to be 
used for such purpose.
    Sec. 1308. Funds appropriated in this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in or pursuant to this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414).
    Sec. 1309. (a) Of the amounts available to the Secretary of Defense, 
$63,500,000 may be used to reimburse applicable appropriations for the 
value of support provided by the Department of Defense under the Iraq 
Liberation Act of 1998: Provided, That this appropriation shall not 
increase the limitation set forth in section (4)(a)(2)(B) of that Act.
    (b) Section (4)(a)(2) of the Iraq Liberation Act <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 
note.>> of 1998 is amended by adding the following new subparagraph at 
the end:
                    ``(C) The aggregate value (as defined in section 
                644(m) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961) of 
                assistance provided under this paragraph may not exceed 
                $86,500,000 in fiscal year 2003.''.

    (c) Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> any other 
provision of law, none of the funds provided in this or any other 
appropriations Act for the Department of Defense may be used for the 
drawdown authority in section (4)(a)(2) of the Iraq Liberation Act of 
1998 (including the drawdown authority of this section) unless the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified in writing of the 
sources of the funds to be used for such purpose not later than 7 days 
following the exercise of the drawdown authority.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1310. Up to $1,400,000,000 of funds transferred under the 
authority provided under the heading ``Iraq Freedom Fund'' to 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be used, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, for payments to reimburse Pakistan, Jordan, 
and other key cooperating nations, for logistical and military support 
provided, or to be provided, to United States military operations in 
connection with military action in Iraq and the global war on terrorism: 
Provided, That such payments may be made in such amounts as the 
Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and 
in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, may determine, in his discretion, based on documentation 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive upon 
the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 days following 
notification to the appropriate congressional committees: Provided 
further, That unless expressly provided in an appropriations Act enacted 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds other than those additional

[[Page 117 STAT. 569]]

amounts provided herein shall be made available for any payments 
intended to fulfill the purposes specified in this section and similar 
reimbursement authorities expressly provided in section 304 of Public 
Law 107-117 and within the ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' 
appropriation account enacted in Public Law 107-206: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> not later than July 1, 2003, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit a report in writing to the Committees 
on Appropriations that includes a financial plan for the obligation and 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That if such report is not 
provided to the Committees on Appropriations by the date specified in 
the previous proviso, unobligated balances of funds that are available 
from the amounts provided in this chapter for the purposes specified 
under this section shall be returned to the Treasury of the United 
States: Provided further, That, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> beginning 
not later than July 1, 2003, the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of 
funds made available for payments to Pakistan, Jordan, and other key 
cooperating nations for logistical and military support provided to 
United States military operations in connection with military action in 
and around Iraq and the global war on terrorism.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1311. Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such 
action is necessary in the national interest, he may transfer between 
appropriations up to $2,000,000,000 of the funds made available in this 
chapter: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
Congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
is in addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
Department of Defense: Provided further, That the authority in this 
section is subject to the same terms and conditions as the authority 
provided in section 8005 of Public Law 107-248 except for the fourth 
proviso.
    Sec. 1312. The <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary of 
Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees no later than 
15 days after the obligation of funds appropriated in this Act for 
military construction activities or minor construction in excess of 
$7,500,000.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1313. As of October 31, 2003, all balances of funds remaining 
in the ``Defense Emergency Response Fund'' shall be transferred to, and 
merged with, the ``Iraq Freedom Fund'', and shall be available for the 
same purposes, and under the same terms and conditions, as funds 
appropriated to the ``Iraq Freedom Fund'' in this chapter.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1314. Technical <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Adjustments to Public 
Law 107-248. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the following 
adjustments and transfers shall apply to funds previously made 
available, and to restrictions, in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248):
            (1) Under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
        National Guard'', not more than $3,000,000 is available to build 
        an Infantry Brigade Rifle Range for the South Carolina

[[Page 117 STAT. 570]]

        National Guard; and, in addition, appropriations available 
        during fiscal year 2003 under the heading ``Operation and 
        Maintenance, Army'', not more than $2,000,000 is available for 
        training range enhancements at Fort Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania 
        and, further, appropriations available for the Air Battle 
        Captain program at the University of North Dakota may be used to 
        provide summer flight training to the United States Military 
        Academy cadets.
            (2) Under the heading, ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
        Force'', not more than $6,800,000 is available to build and 
        install fiber optic and power improvements and upgrades at the 
        11th Air Force Range.
            (3) Under the heading, ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', strike 
        ``purchase of 4'' and insert ``purchase of 6''.
            (4) Upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall make the following transfers of funds provided in Public 
        Law 107-248 for the Dismounted Intelligence Situation Mapboard 
        (DISM) program, and such funds, once transferred, are available 
        for the Dismounted Intelligence Situation Mapboard (DISM) 
        program: Provided, That the amounts transferred shall be 
        available for the same purpose as the appropriations to which 
        transferred, and for the same time period as the appropriation 
        from which transferred: Provided further, That the amounts shall 
        be transferred between the following appropriations in the 
        amount specified:
                    From:
                          Under the heading ``Other Procurement, Army, 
                      2003/2005'', $5,600,000; and
                          Under the heading ``Research, Development, 
                      Test and Evaluation, Army, 2003/2004'', 
                      $2,800,000.
                    To:
                          Under the heading ``Procurement, Marine Corps, 
                      2003/2005'', $2,800,000;
                          Under the heading ``Procurement, Defense-Wide, 
                      2003/2005'', $2,800,000;
                          Under the heading ``Research, Development, 
                      Test and Evaluation, Navy, 2003/2004'', 
                      $1,400,000; and
                          Under the heading ``Research, Development, 
                      Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide, 2003/2004'', 
                      $1,400,000.

    Sec. 1315. Section 811(b) of the Bob Stump National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 
2608; 10 U.S.C. 2406c note) <<NOTE: 10 USC 2306c note.>> is amended by 
striking ``on or after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting ``on or after January 1, 2004''.

    Sec. 1316. (a) Increase in Imminent Danger Special Pay.--Section 
310(a) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``$150'' 
and inserting ``$225''.
    (b) Increase in Family Separation Allowance.--Section 427(a)(1) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``$100'' and 
inserting ``$250''.
    (c) Expiration.--(1) The <<NOTE: 37 USC 310 note.>> amendments made 
by subsections (a) and (b) shall expire on September 30, 2003.

    (2) Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on September 30, 2003, 
sections 310(a) of title 37, United States Code, and 427(a)(1) of title 
37, United States Code, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act are hereby revived.

[[Page 117 STAT. 571]]

    (d) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: Applicability. 37 USC 310 
note.>> amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on 
October 1, 2002, and shall apply with respect to months beginning on or 
after that date.

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 1317. Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following account in the specified amount: ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Navy, 2003/2004'', $3,400,000.
    Sec. 1318. In the case of a member of the Armed Forces who is ill or 
injured as described in section 411h of title 37, United States Code, as 
a result of service on active duty in support of Operation Noble Eagle, 
Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom, in addition to 
the transportation benefits authorized under that section, travel 
allowances may be provided to members of the family of the ill or 
injured member without regard to whether there is a determination that 
the presence of the family member may contribute to the member's health 
and welfare.
    Sec. 1319. (a) For a member of the Armed Forces medically evacuated 
for treatment in a medical facility, or for travel to a medical facility 
or the member's home station, by reason of an illness or injury incurred 
or aggravated by the member while on active duty in support of Operation 
Noble Eagle, Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom, the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may procure civilian 
attire suitable for wear by the member during the travel.
    (b) The Secretary may not expend more than $250 for the procurement 
of civilian attire for any member under subsection (a).

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                   operation and maintenance, general

    For an additional amount for homeland security expenses, for 
``Operation and Maintenance, General'', $39,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for homeland security expenses, for ``Water 
and Related Resources'', $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

[[Page 117 STAT. 572]]

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             Energy Programs

                                 science

    For an additional amount for ``Science'' for expenses necessary to 
support safeguards and security of nuclear and other facilities and for 
other purposes, $11,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                National Nuclear Security Administration

                           weapons activities

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Activities'' for expenses 
necessary to safeguard nuclear weapons and nuclear material, 
$67,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$20,000,000 of the funds provided shall be available for secure 
transportation asset activities: Provided further, That $47,000,000 of 
the funds provided shall be available to meet increased safeguards and 
security needs throughout the nuclear weapons complex.

                    DEFENSE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'', 
$148,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

         Defense Environmental Restoration and Waste Management

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Environmental Restoration and 
Waste Management'', for expenses necessary to support safeguards and 
security activities at nuclear and other facilities, $6,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                        OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

    For an additional amount for ``Other Defense Activities'', 
$4,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 5

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

           United States Agency for International Development

                 child survival and health programs fund

    For an additional amount for ``Child Survival and Health Programs 
Fund'', $90,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

[[Page 117 STAT. 573]]

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$143,800,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That amounts 
made available pursuant to section 492(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 for the purpose of addressing relief and rehabilitation needs in 
Iraq, prior to enactment of this Act, shall be in addition to the amount 
that may be obligated in any fiscal year under that section: Provided 
further, That during the remainder of fiscal year 2003 the authority 
referenced in the preceding proviso may not be utilized unless written 
notice has been provided to the Committees on Appropriations not less 
than 5 days prior to the exercise of such authority.

    operating expenses of the united states agency for international 
                               development

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses of the United 
States Agency for International Development'', $24,500,000, of which not 
less than $3,500,000 may be transferred to and merged with ``Operating 
Expenses of the United States Agency for International Development 
Office of Inspector General'' for financial and program audits of the 
Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund and other assistance for Iraq.

                   OTHER BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   iraq relief and reconstruction fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for humanitarian assistance in and around 
Iraq and to carry out the purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
for rehabilitation and reconstruction in Iraq, there is appropriated to 
the President, $2,475,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004, including for the costs of: (1) water/sanitation infrastructure; 
(2) feeding and food distribution; (3) supporting relief efforts related 
to refugees, internally displaced persons, and vulnerable individuals, 
including assistance for families of innocent Iraqi civilians who suffer 
losses as a result of military operations; (4) electricity; (5) 
healthcare; (6) telecommunications; (7) economic and financial policy; 
(8) education; (9) transportation; (10) rule of law and governance; (11) 
humanitarian demining; and (12) agriculture: Provided, That these funds 
shall be apportioned only to the Department of State, the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Department of the Treasury, 
the Department of Defense, and the Department of Health and Human 
Services, as appropriate, for expenses to meet such costs: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to 
fully reimburse accounts administered by the Department of State, the 
Department of the Treasury and the United States Agency for 
International Development, not otherwise reimbursed from funds 
appropriated by this chapter, for obligations incurred for the purposes 
provided under this heading prior to enactment of this Act from funds 
appropriated for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs: Provided further, That prior to the initial apportionment of 
funds made available under this

[[Page 117 STAT. 574]]

heading to any agency or department, the President, or his designee, 
shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on plans for the use 
of the funds appropriated under this heading that will be used for 
assistance for Iraq: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation: Provided further, That the 
United States may accept from any person, foreign government, or 
international organization, and credit to this Fund, any contribution of 
money for such purposes: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Notification.>> funds appropriated under this heading or 
transferred under provisions of this chapter or section 632 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that are made available for assistance 
for Iraq shall be subject to notification of the Committees on 
Appropriations, except that notifications shall be transmitted at least 
5 days in advance of the obligation of funds.

                          Economic Support Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$2,422,000,000, of which:
            (1) not less than $700,000,000 <<NOTE: Jordan.>> shall be 
        made available for assistance for Jordan;
            (2) $300,000,000, to remain <<NOTE: Egypt.>> available until 
        September 30, 2005, shall be made available only for grants for 
        Egypt: Provided, That during the period beginning March 1, 2003, 
        and ending September 30, 2005, loan guarantees may be made to 
        Egypt, the principal amount, any part of which is to be 
        guaranteed, shall not exceed $2,000,000,000: Provided further, 
        That the Government of Egypt will incur all the costs, as 
        defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, 
        as amended, associated with these loan guarantees, including any 
        non-repayment exposure risk: Provided further, That all fees 
        associated with these loan guarantees, including subsidy and 
        administrative costs, shall be paid by the Government of Egypt 
        to the Government of the United States: Provided further, That 
        funds made available under this paragraph and other funds 
        appropriated to carry out chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 and made available for assistance for 
        Egypt may be used by the Government of Egypt to pay such fees to 
        the United States Government: Provided further, That such 
        guarantees shall constitute obligations, in accordance with the 
        terms of such guarantees, of the United States and the full 
        faith and credit of the United States is hereby pledged for full 
        payment and performance of such obligations: Provided further, 
        That the <<NOTE: President.>> President shall determine the 
        terms and conditions for issuing the economic assistance 
        authorized by this paragraph and should take into consideration 
        budgetary and economic reforms undertaken by Egypt: Provided 
        further, That if the President determines that these terms and 
        conditions have been breached, the President may suspend or 
        terminate the provision of all or part of such economic 
        assistance not yet outlayed under this paragraph;

[[Page 117 STAT. 575]]

            (3) not to exceed $1,000,000,000, <<NOTE: Turkey.>> to 
        remain available until September 30, 2005, for grants for 
        Turkey: Provided, That during the period beginning March 1, 
        2003, and ending September 30, 2005, direct loans or loan 
        guarantees may be made to Turkey, the principal amount of direct 
        loans or loans, any part of which is to be guaranteed, shall not 
        exceed $8,500,000,000: Provided further, That the Government of 
        Turkey will incur all the costs, as defined in section 502 of 
        the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended, associated 
        with these loans or loan guarantees, including any non-repayment 
        exposure risk: Provided further, That all fees associated with 
        these loans or loan guarantees, including subsidy and 
        administrative costs, shall be paid by the Government of Turkey 
        to the Government of the United States: Provided further, That 
        funds made available under this paragraph and other funds 
        appropriated to carry out chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 and made available for assistance for 
        Turkey may be used by the Government of Turkey to pay such fees 
        to the United States Government: Provided further, That such 
        guarantees shall constitute obligations, in accordance with the 
        terms of such guarantees, of the United States and the full 
        faith and credit of the United States is hereby pledged for the 
        full payment and performance of such obligations: Provided 
        further, That none of the funds made available by this paragraph 
        may be made available for assistance for Turkey if the Secretary 
        of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House and Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and Committee on International Relations 
        of the House that the Government of Turkey is not cooperating 
        with the United States in Operation Iraqi Freedom, including the 
        facilitation of humanitarian assistance to Iraq, or has 
        unilaterally deployed troops into northern Iraq: Provided 
        further, That the <<NOTE: President.>> President shall determine 
        the terms and conditions for issuing the economic assistance 
        authorized by this paragraph and should take into consideration 
        budgetary and economic reforms undertaken by Turkey: Provided 
        further, That if the President determines that these terms and 
        conditions have been breached, the President may suspend or 
        terminate the provision of all or part of such economic 
        assistance not yet outlayed under this paragraph: Provided 
        further, That any balance of funds not made available to Turkey 
        under this paragraph shall be transferred to, and merged with, 
        funds appropriated for ``Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund'';
            (4) not less than $30,000,000 
        for <<NOTE: Philippines.>> assistance for the Philippines to 
        further prospects for peace in Mindanao, and not less than 
        $167,000,000 for assistance for Afghanistan: Provided, That of 
        the funds appropriated under this heading, $10,000,000 should be 
        made available for investigations and research into allegations 
        of war crimes, crimes against humanity, or genocide committed by 
        Saddam Hussein or other Iraqis, and for a contribution to an 
        international tribunal to bring these individuals to justice;
            (5) regional funds made available under this heading for 
        assistance that are not specified in paragraphs (1) through (4) 
        shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 576]]

            (6) unless otherwise specified herein, funds appropriated 
        under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 
        2004.

                        Loan Guarantees to Israel

    During the period beginning March 1, 2003, and ending September 30, 
2005, loan guarantees may be made available to Israel, guaranteeing 100 
percent of the principal and interest on such loans, the principal 
amount, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$9,000,000,000, of which up to $3,000,000,000 may be issued prior to 
October 1, 2003, or thereafter and of which $3,000,000,000 may be issued 
subsequent to September 30, 2004: Provided, That such guarantees shall 
constitute obligations, in accordance with the terms of such guarantees, 
of the United States and the full faith and credit of the United States 
is hereby pledged for the full payment and performance of such 
obligations: Provided further, That if less than the full amount of 
guarantees authorized to be made available is issued prior to September 
30, 2005, the authority to issue the balance of such guarantees shall 
extend to the subsequent fiscal year: Provided further, That guarantees 
may be issued under this section only to support activities in the 
geographic areas which were subject to the administration of the 
Government of Israel before June 5, 1967: Provided further, That the 
amount of guarantees that may be issued shall be reduced by an amount 
equal to the amount extended or estimated to have been extended by the 
Government of Israel during the period from March 1, 2003, to the date 
of issue of the guarantee, for activities which the President determines 
are inconsistent with the objectives and understandings reached between 
the United States and the Government of Israel regarding the 
implementation of the loan guarantee program: Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: President. Reports. Deadline.>> President shall submit a 
report to Congress no later than September 30 of each fiscal year during 
the pendency of the program specifying the amount calculated under the 
preceding proviso and that will be deducted from the amount of 
guarantees authorized to be issued in the next fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the interest rate for loans guaranteed under this heading 
may include a reasonable fee to cover the costs and fees incurred by the 
borrower in connection with this program or financing under this heading 
in the event the borrower elects not to finance such costs or fees out 
of loan principal: Provided further, That no appropriations under this 
heading are available for the subsidy costs for these loan guarantees: 
Provided further, That the Government of Israel will pay the cost, as 
defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as 
amended, including any non-payment exposure risk, associated with the 
loan guarantees issued in any fiscal year, on a pro rata basis as each 
guarantee is issued during that year: Provided further, That all fees 
(as defined in section 601(e) of Public Law 102-391) associated with the 
loan guarantees shall be paid by the Government of Israel to the 
Government of the United States: Provided further, That funds made 
available for assistance to Israel under chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be utilized by the 
Government of Israel to pay such fees to the United States Government: 
Provided further, That the <<NOTE: President.>> President shall 
determine the terms and conditions for issuing guarantees, taking into 
consideration

[[Page 117 STAT. 577]]

the budgetary and economic reforms undertaken by Israel: Provided 
further, That if the President determines that these terms and 
conditions have been breached, the President may suspend or terminate 
the provision of all or part of the loan guarantees not yet issued under 
this heading.

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

           International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004.

                      Andean Counterdrug Initiative

    For an additional amount for the ``Andean Counterdrug Initiative'', 
$34,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading that are made 
available for Colombia, not less than $5,000,000 should be made 
available for programs and activities to assist persons who have been 
displaced as a result of armed conflict.

      United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund

    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $80,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding section 2(c)(2) of the Migration and Refugee 
Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)(2)).

     Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $28,000,000: Provided, That funds 
appropriated by this paragraph shall be available notwithstanding 
section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                   Foreign Military Financing Program

    For an additional amount for the ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', $2,059,100,000: Provided, That funds appropriated by this 
paragraph shall be available notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 
91-672 and section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
1956: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $406,000,000 shall be made available for grants 
only for Jordan and not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be available for 
grants only for Israel: Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Deadline.>> funds appropriated by this paragraph for Israel 
shall be disbursed within 30 days of the enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the Government of Israel

[[Page 117 STAT. 578]]

requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for 
Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed to by the United States and 
Israel, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which not less 
than $263,000,000 shall be available for the procurement in Israel of 
defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That up to $20,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph may be transferred to and merged with 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Andean Counterdrug Initiative'' 
for aircraft, training, and other assistance for the 
Colombian <<NOTE: Notification.>> Armed Forces: Provided further, That, 
except for Israel and Jordan, funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, except that notifications shall be 
transmitted at least 5 days in advance of the commitment of funds: 
Provided further, That such <<NOTE: Reports.>> notification shall be in 
the form of a report (in classified or unclassified form) which contains 
each country receiving assistance from funds aggregated under this 
heading, other than Israel and Jordan, the amount of assistance to be 
provided and a description of the equipment and other assistance being 
financed from such funds.

                         Peacekeeping Operations

    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1501. Any appropriation made available in this chapter under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``United States 
Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund'', ``Nonproliferation, 
Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', or ``Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund'' may be 
transferred between such appropriations for use for any of the purposes 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used: Provided, 
That the total amount transferred from funds appropriated under these 
headings shall not exceed $100,000,000: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
prior to exercising the authority contained in this section: Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Notification.>> funds made available pursuant to 
the authority of this section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, except that 
notification shall be transmitted at least 5 days in advance of the 
obligations of funds.

    Sec. 1502. Assistance or other financing under this chapter may be 
provided for Iraq notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided, 
That the authority contained in this section shall not apply to section 
553 of Public Law 108-7: Provided further, That funds 
made <<NOTE: Notification.>> available for Iraq pursuant to this 
authority shall be subject to the regular reprogramming procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations and section 634A of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, except that notification shall be transmitted at 
least 5 days in advance of obligation: Provided further, That the 
notification requirements of this section may be waived if failure to do 
so would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided 
further, That in case of any such waiver, notification to the 
appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after taking

[[Page 117 STAT. 579]]

the action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    Sec. 1503. The President may suspend the application of any 
provision of the Iraq Sanctions Act of 1990: Provided, That nothing in 
this section shall affect the applicability of the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-
Proliferation Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-484), except that such Act 
shall not apply to humanitarian assistance and supplies: Provided 
further, That the President may make inapplicable with respect to Iraq 
section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or any other 
provision of law that applies to countries that have supported 
terrorism: Provided further, That military equipment, as defined by 
title XVI, section 1608(1)(A) of Public Law 102-484, shall not be 
exported under the authority of this section: Provided further, That 
section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply with 
respect to programs of international organizations for Iraq: Provided 
further, That provisions of law that direct the United States Government 
to vote against or oppose loans or other uses of funds, including for 
financial or technical assistance, in international financial 
institutions for Iraq shall not be construed as applying to Iraq: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: President. Notification.>> the President 
shall submit a notification 5 days prior to exercising any of the 
authorities described in this section to the Committee on Appropriations 
of each House of the Congress, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate, and the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
Representatives: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadlines. President. Reports.>> not more than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act and every 90 days thereafter the President 
shall submit a report to the Committee on Appropriations of each House 
of the Congress, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and 
the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
containing a summary of all licenses approved for export to Iraq of any 
item on the Commerce Control List contained in the Export Administration 
Regulations, 15 CFR Part 774, Supplement 1, including identification of 
end users of such items: Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Expiration 
date.>> authorities contained in this section shall expire on September 
30, 2004, or on the date of enactment of a subsequent Act authorizing 
assistance for Iraq and that specifically amends, repeals or otherwise 
makes inapplicable the authorities of this section, whichever occurs 
first.

    Sec. 1504. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President 
may authorize the export to Iraq of any nonlethal military equipment 
controlled under the International Trafficking in Arms Regulations on 
the United States Munitions List established pursuant to section 38 of 
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), if the President 
determines and notifies within 5 days prior to export the Committee on 
Appropriations of each House of the Congress, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on International Relations of 
the House of Representatives that the export of such nonlethal military 
equipment is in the national interest of the United States: Provided, 
That the limitation regarding nonlethal military equipment shall not 
apply to military equipment designated by the Secretary of State for use 
by a reconstituted (or interim) Iraqi military or police

[[Page 117 STAT. 580]]

force: Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> authorities 
contained in this section shall expire on September 30, 2004, or on the 
date of enactment of a subsequent Act authorizing assistance for Iraq 
and that specifically amends, repeals or otherwise makes inapplicable 
the authorities of this section, whichever occurs first.

    Sec. 1505. Division E of Public Law 108-7, under the heading 
``Assistance for the Independent States of the <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
169.>> Former Soviet Union'', is amended in subsection (f) by: (1) 
striking ``assistance for the Government'' and inserting ``assistance 
for the central Government''; and (2) striking ``unless'' and inserting 
``if''; and striking ``not facilitated'' and inserting ``facilitated''.

SEC. 1506. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 2151 note.>> REPORTS ON UNITED 
            STATES STRATEGY FOR RELIEF AND RECONSTRUCTION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Initial Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 45 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations a report on the United States strategy 
regarding activities related to post-conflict security, humanitarian 
assistance, governance, and reconstruction in Iraq that are undertaken 
as a result of Operation Iraqi Freedom. The report shall include the 
following:
            (1) The distribution of duties and responsibilities 
        regarding such activities among agencies of the United States 
        Government, including the Department of State, the United States 
        Agency for International Development, and the Department of 
        Defense (to be provided within 30 days of enactment of this 
        Act).
            (2) A detailed plan describing the roles and 
        responsibilities of foreign governments and international 
        organizations including the United Nations, in carrying out 
        activities related to post-conflict security, humanitarian 
        assistance, governance, and reconstruction in Iraq.
            (3) A strategy for coordinating such activities among the 
        United States Government, foreign governments and international 
        organizations, including the United Nations.
            (4) An initial estimate of the costs expected to be 
        associated with such activities.
            (5) A strategy for distributing the responsibility for 
        paying costs associated with reconstruction activities in Iraq 
        among the United States, foreign governments, and international 
        organizations, including the United Nations, and an estimate of 
        the revenue expected to be generated by Iraqi oil production 
        that could be used to pay such costs.

    (b) Subsequent Reports.--Not later <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter 
until September 30, 2004, the President shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations a report that contains:
            (1) A list of significant United States Government-funded 
        activities related to reconstruction in Iraq that, during the 
        90-day period ending 15 days prior to the date the report is 
        submitted to the Committees on Appropriations--
                    (A) were initiated; or
                    (B) were completed.
            (2) A list of the significant activities related to 
        reconstruction in Iraq that the President anticipates initiating 
        during the 90-day period beginning on the date the report is 
        submitted to the Committees on Appropriations, including:

[[Page 117 STAT. 581]]

                    (A) Cost estimates for carrying out the proposed 
                activities.
                    (B) The source of the funds that will be used to pay 
                such costs.
            (3) Updated strategies, if changes are proposed regarding 
        matters included in the reports required under subsection (a).
            (4) An updated list of the financial pledges and 
        contributions made by foreign governments or international 
        organizations to fund activities related to humanitarian, 
        governance, and reconstruction assistance in Iraq.

                                CHAPTER 6

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                         Departmental Management

                          counterterrorism fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Counterterrorism Fund'' for 
necessary expenses as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse any 
Department of Homeland Security organization for the costs of providing 
support to prevent, counter, investigate, respond to, or prosecute 
unexpected threats or acts of terrorism: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds in 
accordance with section 1601 of this Act.

                  Citizenship and Immigration Services

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for ``Operating Expenses'' related to 
conducting Operation Liberty Shield, $3,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                      United States Secret Service

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses related to conducting Operation Liberty Shield, $30,000,000, to 
remain available <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 15 days prior 
to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                   Border and Transportation Security

                      customs and border protection

    For necessary expenses for ``Customs and Border Protection'' related 
to conducting Operation Liberty Shield and for other purposes, 
$333,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided,

[[Page 117 STAT. 582]]

That the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                   immigration and customs enforcement

    For necessary expenses for ``Immigration and Customs Enforcement'' 
related to conducting Operation Liberty Shield and for other purposes, 
$170,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                 transportation security administration

    For necessary expenses for ``Transportation Security 
Administration'', $665,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That $130,000,000 of this amount shall not be made available 
until September 30, 2003: Provided further, That of the total amount 
provided, the following amounts are made available solely for the 
purposes specified below:
            (1) physical modification of commercial service airports for 
        the purposes of installing checked baggage explosive detection 
        systems into airport baggage systems, $235,000,000;
            (2) port security grants, $20,000,000; and
            (3) passenger screener hiring, training and related costs, 
        $280,000,000, which shall not be obligated: (a) until the 
        President transmits an official budget request for such amount 
        to the Congress; and (b) until the Administrator of the 
        Transportation Security Administration submits a fiscal year 
        2003 budget execution plan approved by the Office of Management 
        and Budget detailing spending levels by budget line item, 
        program, project and activity: Provided, That such plan shall 
        fully fund all programs and activities specifically funded by 
        Congress in Public Laws 107-206 and 108-7:

Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives 15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these 
funds.

       Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Operating Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'' related to 
conducting Operation Liberty Shield, $2,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                    Office for Domestic Preparedness

    For an additional amount for the ``Office for Domestic 
Preparedness'', $2,230,000,000, to remain available until December 31, 
2003, as authorized by sections 403(5) and 430 of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) and section 1014 of the USA PATRIOT Act 
of 2001 (Public Law 107-56), for grants, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and other activities, including grants to

[[Page 117 STAT. 583]]

State and local governments for terrorism prevention activities, which 
shall be allocated as follows:
            (1) $1,300,000,000 for grants pursuant to section 1014 of 
        Public Law 107-56: Provided, That 
        the <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> application for grants shall be made 
        available to States within 15 days of enactment of this Act; 
        that States shall submit applications within 30 days of the 
        grant announcement; that the Office for Domestic Preparedness 
        shall act on each application within 15 days of receipt; and 
        that each State shall transfer no less than 80 percent of the 
        total amount of the grant to local governments within 45 days of 
        the grant award;
            (2) $30,000,000 for technical assistance;
            (3) $200,000,000 for formula-based grants for critical 
        infrastructure protection, subject to section 1014(c)(3) of 
        Public Law 107-56: Provided, That 
        the <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> application for these grants shall be 
        made available to States within 15 days of enactment of this 
        Act; that States shall submit applications within 30 days of the 
        grant announcement; that the Office for Domestic Preparedness 
        shall act on each application within 15 days of receipt; and 
        that each State shall transfer no less than 50 percent of the 
        total amount of the grant to local governments within 45 days of 
        the grant award; and
            (4) $700,000,000 for discretionary grants for use in high-
        density urban areas, high-threat areas, and for protection of 
        critical infrastructure, as determined by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security: Provided, That no less than 80 percent of any 
        grant to a State shall be transferred by the State to local 
        governments within 45 days of the receipt of funds: Provided 
        further, That section 1014(c)(3) of Public Law 107-56 shall not 
        apply to these grants:

Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be used for the construction or renovation of facilities: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in subsections (3) and (4) under this 
heading shall be available for operational costs, to include personnel 
overtime as needed: Provided further, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives 15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of the 
funds provided under this heading.

                        United States Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'' for expenses 
related to conducting Operation Liberty Shield and for other purposes, 
$228,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                   Emergency Preparedness and Response

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for ``Operating Expenses'' related to 
conducting Operation Liberty Shield, $45,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the

[[Page 117 STAT. 584]]

Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Management Planning and 
Assistance'', $54,750,000, for grants for interoperable communications 
equipment: Provided, That 
the <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
15 days prior to the obligation of any amount of these funds.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1601. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies in or transferred to the 
Department of Homeland Security that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2003, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) 
creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity for which 
funds have been denied or restricted by Congress; or (4) proposes to use 
funds directed for a specific activity by either the House or Senate 
Committees on Appropriations for a different purpose, unless the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 
days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies in or transferred to the Department 
of Homeland Security that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
in fiscal year 2003, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of 
the United States derived by the collection of fees available to the 
agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for programs, projects, or activities through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities; 
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, project, or 
activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as approved by Congress; 
or (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in personnel 
which would result in a change in existing programs, projects or 
activities, as approved by Congress; unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 1602. (a) The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Border 
and Transportation Security may issue letters of intent to airports to 
provide assistance for the installation of explosive detection systems 
by the date prescribed by section 44901(d)(2)(i) of title 49, United 
States Code.
    (b) Beginning 30 <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and every 60 days thereafter in calendar year 
2003, the Under Secretary shall transmit a classified report to the 
House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, the Senate 
Committee on Appropriations, the House of Representatives Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on

[[Page 117 STAT. 585]]

Commerce, Science, and Transportation describing each letter of intent 
issued by the Under Secretary under subsection (a).

    Sec. 1603. In accordance with section 873(b) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 453(b)), the Bureau of Customs and Border 
Protection may accept donations of body armor for United States Border 
Patrol agents and United States Border Patrol canines if such donations 
would further the mission of protecting our Nation's borders and ports 
of entry as determined by the Under Secretary for Border and 
Transportation Security.

                                CHAPTER 7

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 disease control, research, and training

    For an additional amount for ``Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Disease Control, Research, and Training'', $16,000,000 for 
costs associated with the prevention and control of Severe Acute 
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

                         Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For an additional amount for the ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', $42,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
costs associated with compensating individuals with injuries resulting 
from smallpox vaccinations and countermeasures: Provided, That such 
funds shall become available only upon the enactment of legislation 
authorizing a smallpox vaccination compensation program.

                            General Provision

                              repatriation

    Sec. 1701. Section 1113(d) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1313(d)), is amended by striking ``1991'' and inserting ``2003''.

                                CHAPTER 8

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses of the House of 
Representatives, $11,000,000, as follows:

[[Page 117 STAT. 586]]

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses of standing 
committees, special and select, authorized by House resolutions, 
$11,000,000: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2004.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                            General Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``General expenses'', $37,758,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $111,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                            Capitol Building

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol building'', $1,100,000.

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol power plant'', $22,679,000, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2007.

                  Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol police buildings and 
grounds'', $40,140,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $5,500,000 
to remain available until September 30, 2007.

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $1,863,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $4,849,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 587]]

                     GENERAL PROVISONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1801. Postal Patron Postcards. The matter under the subheading 
``miscellaneous items'' under the heading ``Contingent Expenses of the 
Senate'' under title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2003 (Public Law 108-7) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 348.>> is amended by striking 
``with a population of less than 250,000''.

                                CHAPTER 9

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy'', 
$48,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated or expended to carry out military construction projects not 
otherwise authorized by law.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$152,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2007: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated or expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

           Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing Operation and 
Maintenance, Air Force'', $1,800,000.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1901. (a) Transfer Authority.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer not more than $150,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Defense in this Act to the contingency construction account, authorized 
under section 2804 of title 10, United States Code, for the purpose of 
carrying out military construction projects not otherwise authorized by 
law. The transfer authority under this section is in addition to any 
other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.
    (b) Conditions on Transfer.--A transfer of funds under subsection 
(a) may not be made until the end of the 7-day period beginning on the 
date the Secretary of Defense submits written notice to the appropriate 
committees of Congress certifying that the transfer is necessary to 
respond to, or protect against, acts or threatened acts of terrorism or 
to support Department of Defense operations in Iraq, and specifying the 
amounts and purposes of the transfer, including a list of proposed 
projects and their estimated costs.
    (c) Notice of Obligations.--Notwithstanding section 2804(b) of title 
10, United States Code, when a decision is made to carry out a military 
construction project using funds transferred to the

[[Page 117 STAT. 588]]

contingency construction account under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit written notice to the appropriate committees of 
Congress no later than 15 days after the obligation of the funds for the 
project, specifying the estimated cost of the project and including form 
1391.
    (d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the terms 
``appropriate committees of Congress'', ``military construction'', and 
``military installation'' have the meanings given such terms in section 
2801 of title 10, United States Code, except that, with respect to 
military construction in a foreign country, the term ``military 
installation'' includes, not only buildings, structures, and other 
improvements to real property under the operational control of the 
Secretary of a military department or the Secretary of Defense, but also 
any building, structure, or other improvement to real property to be 
used by the Armed Forces, regardless of whether such use is anticipated 
to be temporary or of longer duration.
    Sec. 1902. (a) The Secretary of the Army may accept funds from the 
State of Utah, and credit them to the appropriate Department of the Army 
accounts for the purpose of funding the costs associated with extending 
the runway at Michael Army Airfield, Dugway Proving Ground, Utah, as 
part of a previously authorized military construction project.
    (b) The Secretary may use the funds accepted for the refurbishment, 
in addition to funds authorized and appropriated for the project. The 
authority to accept a contribution under this section does not authorize 
the Secretary of the Army to reduce expenditures of amounts appropriated 
for the refurbishment project. The funds accepted shall remain available 
until expended.
    (c) The authority <<NOTE: Effective date.>> provided in this section 
shall be effective upon the date of the enactment of this Act.

                               CHAPTER 10

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration

           maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized, $25,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2005: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Certification.>> none of the funds under 
this heading may be obligated or expended until the Department of 
Transportation Inspector General certifies to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations that the recommendations of report CR-2003-
031 have been implemented to his satisfaction.

[[Page 117 STAT. 589]]

          TITLE II--MISCELLANEOUS AND TECHNICAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

  Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 2101. (a) Section 756 in division A of Public Law 108-7 is 
amended <<NOTE: Ante, p. 45.>> by striking ``section 7404'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``sections 7404(a)(1) and 7404(c)(1)''.

    (b) Section 7404(e) of Public Law 107-171 is <<NOTE: 7 USC 3101 
note.>> amended by striking ``0.1 percent of the amount of 
appropriations available to the Agricultural Research Service'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``$499,000 of the amount of appropriations 
available to the Department of Agriculture''.

    Sec. 2102. Section 210 of the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003, 
``Assistance to <<NOTE: Ante, p. 544.>> Agricultural Producers Located 
in New Mexico for Tebuthiuron Application Losses'', is amended in 
subsection (a)--
            (1) by inserting ``all'' before ``losses'';
            (2) by inserting after ``losses'' the following: ``to crops, 
        livestock, and trees, and interest and loss of income, and 
        related expenses'';
            (3) by striking ``during calendar years 2002 and 2003''; and
            (4) by striking ``August'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``July''.

    Sec. 2103. Livestock Compensation Program. Section 203(a) of the 
Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 (title II of division N of Public 
Law 108-7) is amended <<NOTE: Ante, p. 539.>> by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) Grants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To provide assistance to eligible 
                applicants under paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary shall 
                provide grants to appropriate State departments of 
                agriculture (or other appropriate State agencies) that 
                agree to provide assistance to eligible applicants.
                    ``(B) Amount.--The total amount of grants provided 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be equal to the total 
                amount of assistance that the Secretary determines all 
                eligible applicants are eligible to receive under 
                paragraph (2)(B).''.

    Sec. 2104. Use of Organically Produced Feed for Certification as 
Organic Farm. Section 771 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2003 
(division A of <<NOTE: Ante, p. 49.>> Public Law 108-7) is repealed.

    Sec. 2105. Wild Seafood. Section 2107 of the Organic Foods 
Production Act of <<NOTE: 7 USC 6506.>> 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6503) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

    ``(c) Wild Seafood.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding 
        the <<NOTE: Regulations. Public information.>> requirement of 
        section 2107(a)(1)(A) requiring products be produced only on 
        certified organic farms, the Secretary shall allow, through 
        regulations promulgated after public notice and opportunity for 
        comment, wild seafood to be certified or labeled as organic.

[[Page 117 STAT. 590]]

            ``(2) Consultation and accommodation.--In carrying out 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) consult with--
                          ``(i) the Secretary of Commerce;
                          ``(ii) the National Organic Standards Board 
                      established under section 2119;
                          ``(iii) producers, processors, and sellers; 
                      and
                          ``(iv) other interested members of the public; 
                      and
                    ``(B) to the maximum extent practicable, accommodate 
                the unique characteristics of the industries in the 
                United States that harvest and process wild seafood.''.

    Sec. 2106. Technical Assistance for Conservation Programs. (a) In 
General.--Section 1241 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) 
is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Technical <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Effective beginning on the date of 
        enactment of the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003, subject to 
        paragraph (2), Commodity Credit Corporation funds made available 
        under paragraphs (4) through (7) of subsection (a) shall be 
        available for the provision of technical assistance (subject to 
        section 1242) for the conservation programs specified in 
        subsection (a).
            ``(2) Conservation security program.--Effective for fiscal 
        year 2004 and subsequent fiscal years, Commodity Credit 
        Corporation funds made available to carry out the conservation 
        security program under subsection (a)(3)--
                    ``(A) shall be available for the provision of 
                technical assistance for the conservation security 
                program; and
                    ``(B) shall not be available for the provision of 
                technical assistance for conservation programs specified 
                in subsection (a) other than the conservation security 
                program.''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 16 USC 3841 note.>> amendment made 
by subsection (a) takes effect on February 20, 2003.

                                CHAPTER 2

               DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

              european communities music licensing dispute

    For the payment to the European Communities with regard to the 
European Communities music licensing dispute, $3,300,000.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                procurement, acquisition and construction

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Acquisition and 
Construction'' for satellite programs, $65,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2004: Provided, That funds provided under

[[Page 117 STAT. 591]]

this heading for the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental 
Satellite System shall only be made available on a dollar for dollar 
matching basis with funds provided for the same purpose by the 
Department of Defense.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, Salaries and Expenses'', $15,000,000.

     National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``National Commission on Terrorist 
Attacks Upon the United States, Salaries and Expenses'', $11,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2201. Section 501(b) of title V of division N of the 
Consolidated Appropriations <<NOTE: Ante, p. 549.>> Resolution, 2003 is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``program authorized for the fishery in Sec. 
        211'' and inserting ``programs authorized for the fisheries in 
        sections 211 and 212''; and
            (2) by striking ``program in section 211'' and inserting 
        ``programs in sections 211 and 212''.

                                CHAPTER 3

                  Subcommittee on District of Columbia

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          DIVISION OF EXPENSES

                   Governmental Direction and Support

                         (including rescissions)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $8,752,000 are rescinded (including 
$8,655,000 from local funds and $97,000 from other funds).

                   Economic Development and Regulation

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development and 
Regulation'', $13,428,000 (including a rescission of $1,282,000 from 
local funds appropriated under this heading in the District of

[[Page 117 STAT. 592]]

Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, and an additional amount of 
$14,710,000 from other funds).

                        Public Safety and Justice

    For an additional amount for ``Public Safety and Justice'', 
$11,462,000 from local funds.

                         Public Education System

                         (including rescissions)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $11,435,000 are rescinded (including 
a rescission of $13,546,000 from local funds and an additional amount of 
$2,111,000 from other funds), to be allocated as follows:
            (1) District of columbia public schools.--An increase of 
        $2,029,000 (including a rescission of $29,000 from local funds 
        and an additional amount of $2,058,000 from other funds).
            (2) State education office.--A rescission of $181,000 from 
        local funds.
            (3) Public charter schools.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, a rescission of $12,000,000 from local funds.
            (4) University of the district of columbia.--A rescission of 
        $1,040,000 from local funds.
            (5) District of columbia public libraries.--A rescission of 
        $237,000 (including a rescission of $290,000 from local funds 
        and an additional amount of $53,000 from other funds).
            (6) Commission on the arts and humanities.--A rescission of 
        $6,000 from local funds.

                         Human Support Services

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Human Support Services'', $30,258,000 
(including an additional amount of $34,292,000 from local funds and a 
rescission of $4,034,000 from other funds appropriated under this 
heading in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003.
    In addition, this heading in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2003, is amended by striking the following proviso ``: Provided 
further, That $37,500,000 in local funds, to remain available until 
expended, shall be deposited in the Medicaid and Special Education 
Reform Fund.'' and inserting the following proviso ``: Provided further, 
That $74,500,000 in local funds may be deposited in the Medicaid and 
Special Education Reform Fund and shall then remain available until 
expended.''.

                              Public Works

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Works'', $2,420,000 (including 
a rescission of $8,998,000 from local funds appropriated under this 
heading in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, and an 
additional amount of $11,418,000 from other funds):

[[Page 117 STAT. 593]]

Provided, That $512,000 from other funds shall remain available until 
expended for the taxicab revolving loan fund.

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $2,466,000 are rescinded.

                             Wilson Building

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $700,000 are rescinded.

                          Workforce Investments

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $2,000,000 are rescinded.

                         Non-Departmental Agency

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003, $5,799,000 are rescinded.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2301. The District of Columbia is hereby authorized to transfer 
an amount not to exceed $12,081,000, to remain available until expended, 
from funds identified in the fiscal year 2002 comprehensive annual 
financial report as the District of Columbia's undesignated, unreserved 
fund balance to the local general fund to cover revenue shortfalls: 
Provided, That nothing in this provision shall be deemed as granting the 
District additional authority to expend funds from the emergency or 
contingency reserves established under section 450A of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50a(b)).
    Sec. 2302. The authority which the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia exercised with respect to personnel, procurement, 
and the preparation of fiscal impact statements during a control period 
(as defined in Public Law 104-8) shall remain in effect through 
September 30, 2004.
    Sec. 2303. In the statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-
10), in the matter in title I of division C, under the heading ``Federal 
Payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia'' the 
provision specifying $100,000 to Friends of Fort Dupont to restore and 
upgrade unused Fort Dupont baseball fields shall be deemed to read as 
follows: ``$100,000 to Friends of Fort Dupont to restore and upgrade 
unused Fort Dupont baseball fields and to support the Fort Dupont's Kids 
on Ice program''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 594]]

                                CHAPTER 4

              Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    Division F of Public Law 108-7 is hereby amended under the heading 
``United States Fish and Wildlife Service, State and Tribal Wildlife 
Grants'' <<NOTE: Ante, p. 223.>> by striking ``$3,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$5,000,000''.

                          National Park Service

                  operation of the national park system

    Division F of Public Law 108-7 is hereby amended under the heading 
``National Park Service, Operation of the National Park 
System'' <<NOTE: Ante, p. 224.>> by striking ``$1,565,565,000'' and 
inserting ``$1,574,565,000''.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                              construction

    Within 30 days <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall make available for obligation funds 
previously appropriated in Public Law 107-63 for construction of the 
Ojibwa Indian School.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2401. Section 328 of division F, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 276.>> Public 
Law 108-7 is amended by striking the phrase ``under the authority of 
Section 504 of the Rescissions Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-19)'' in the 
proviso.

                                CHAPTER 5

  Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
                            Related Agencies

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                      health resources and services

    The matter under the heading ``Department of Health and Human 
Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Health Resources 
and Services'', in <<NOTE: Ante, p. 307.>> Public Law 108-7 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Heart Beat, New Bloomfield, PA,'' and 
        inserting ``Heart Beat, Millerstown, PA,'' in lieu thereof;
            (2) by striking ``Tressler Lutheran Services, Harrisburg, 
        PA, for abstinence education and related services'' and 
        inserting ``DIAKON Lutheran Social Ministries, Allentown, PA, 
        for

[[Page 117 STAT. 595]]

        abstinence education and related services in Cumberland and 
        Dauphin counties'' in lieu thereof;
            (3) by striking ``Community Ministries of the Lutheran Home 
        at Topton, Reading, PA, for abstinence education and related 
        services'' and inserting ``DIAKON Lutheran Social Ministries of 
        Allentown, PA, for abstinence education and related services in 
        Berks county'' in lieu thereof;
            (4) by striking ``$298,153,000'' and inserting 
        ``$296,638,000'' in the first proviso; and
            (5) by inserting after ``a study regarding delivery of 
        pediatric health care in northeastern Oklahoma,'' the following: 
        ``$225,000 is available for the Mental Health Association of 
        Tarrant County, Ft. Worth, Texas, to provide school-based mental 
        health education to schools in Tarrant County, $200,000 is 
        available for the AIDS Research Institute at the University of 
        California, San Francisco for a Developing Country Medical 
        Program to facilitate clinician exchange between the United 
        States and developing countries, $1,000,000 is available for the 
        Geisinger Health System, Harrisburg, PA, to establish centers of 
        excellence for the treatment of autism''.

                         Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

    The matter under the heading ``Office of the Secretary, Public 
Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'', in Public Law 108-7 is 
amended <<NOTE: Ante, p. 322.>> by striking ``, to remain available 
until expended'' after ``$5,000,000''.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          (transfer authority)

    Sec. 2501. Section 207 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2003 
(Public Law 108-7; division G) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 323.>> is amended by 
striking ``or any other''.

                     international health activities

    Sec. 2502. (a) In addition to the authority provided in section 215 
of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-7, 
division G), in order for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
to carry out international health activities, including HIV/AIDS and 
other infectious disease, chronic and environmental disease, and other 
health activities abroad during fiscal year 2003, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services may exercise authority equivalent to that 
available to the Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2669(c)).
    (b) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall consult with 
the Secretary of State and relevant Chief of Mission to ensure that the 
authority provided in this section is exercised in a manner consistent 
with section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3927) and 
other applicable statutes administered by the Department of State.

[[Page 117 STAT. 596]]

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                       school improvement programs

    The matter under the heading ``Department of Education, School 
Improvement Programs'', in Public Law 108-7 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 327.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$8,052,957,000'' and inserting 
        ``$8,053,507,000'';
            (2) by striking ``$508,100,000'' and inserting 
        ``$537,100,000'';
            (3) by striking ``$4,132,167,000'' and inserting 
        ``$4,233,167,000'';
            (4) by striking ``$814,660,000'' and inserting 
        ``$815,210,000''; and
            (5) by striking ``$212,160,000'' and inserting 
        ``$212,710,000''.

    In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-10), in the 
matter in title III of division G, relating to the Fund for the 
Improvement of Education under the heading ``School Improvement 
Programs''--
            (1) the provision specifying $150,000 for Illinois State 
        Board of Education, Springfield, Illinois, for computers, 
        hardware and software for the implementation of Fast ForWord 
        reading program to the Pleasant Plains Community Unit District 
        #8 and Pleasant Plain Illinois District #18 shall be deemed to 
        read as follows: ``Illinois State Board of Education, 
        Springfield, Illinois, for implementation of Fast ForWord 
        reading program to the Pleasant Plains Community Unit District 
        #8 and for improving mathematics achievement in Peoria School 
        District #150 and Jacksonville School District #117, $150,000'';
            (2) the provision specifying $2,000,000 for Pinellas County 
        Florida School District, St. Petersburg, Florida, for technology 
        for Title I schools shall be deemed to read as follows: ``St. 
        Petersburg College, St. Petersburg, Florida, for the Pinellas 
        County EpiCenter, $2,000,000'';
            (3) the provision specifying $500,000 for the St. Louis 
        Children's Museum, MO, for a collaborative project with the St. 
        Louis Public Library to create interactive exhibits and 
        educational programs shall be deleted;
            (4) the provision specifying $200,000 for the Harford County 
        Board of Education in Aberdeen, MD, for a collaboration between 
        a science and technology high school and the Aberdeen Proving 
        Ground shall be deemed to read as follows: ``Harford County 
        Board of Education in Aberdeen, MD, for a collaboration between 
        a science and technology high school and the Aberdeen Proving 
        Ground, $700,000'';
            (5) the provision specifying $25,000 for the Boys and Girls 
        Club of El Dorado, Arkansas, for drug prevention and after 
        school programs shall be deemed to read as follows: ``Boys and 
        Girls Club, Southeast Unit, El Dorado, Arkansas, for drug 
        prevention and after school programs, $25,000'';
            (6) the provision specifying $100,000 for the American 
        Academy of Liberal Education, Washington, D.C., to develop 
        projects and survey best practices in the study of American 
        democracy and principles of free government at colleges and 
        universities shall be deleted;
            (7) the provision specifying $400,000 for the Milwaukee 
        Public Schools, Wisconsin, to expand before- and after-school

[[Page 117 STAT. 597]]

        programs shall be deemed to read: ``Milwaukee Public Schools, 
        WI, for before- and after-school programs, $400,000'';
            (8) the provision specifying $200,000 for Tensas Reunion, 
        Inc., Newellton, LA, for instructional technology training, and 
        after school programs at the Tensas Charter School shall be 
        deemed to read: ``Tensas Reunion, Inc., Newellton, LA, for the 
        TREES Project in Tensas Parish, including activities such as the 
        purchase of computers and educational software, tutoring, and 
        workshops to promote parental involvement, $200,000'';
            (9) the provision specifying $250,000 for Community School 
        District 8, Flushing, NY, for after-school programs shall be 
        deemed to read: ``Community School District 8, Bronx, NY, for 
        after-school programs, $250,000'';
            (10) the provision specifying $20,000 for Westside High 
        School, Bakersfield, California, for equipment shall be deemed 
        to read: ``West High School, Bakersfield, California, for 
        equipment, $20,000'';
            (11) the provision specifying $1,000,000 for the National 
        Science Center Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia, for educational 
        technology and other purposes shall be deemed to read: 
        ``National Science Center Foundation, Augusta, Georgia, for 
        educational technology and other purposes, $1,000,000'';
            (12) the provision specifying $200,000 for the Golden Gate 
        National Parks Association, San Francisco, CA, for environmental 
        education programs at the Crissy Field Center shall be deemed to 
        read: ``Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy, San Francisco, 
        CA, for environmental education programs at the Crissy Field 
        Center, $200,000'' and a provision shall be added that reads: 
        ``Beresford Community Education in Beresford, SD, to expand 
        community education programs, $150,000'';
            (13) the provision specifying $100,000 for the University of 
        South Florida, Tampa, FL, for the Tampa Bay Consortium for the 
        Development of Educational Leaders and the Preparation and 
        Recruitment of Teachers shall be deemed to read: ``University of 
        South Florida, Tampa, FL, for the Tampa Bay Consortium for the 
        Development of Educational Leaders, $100,000'';
            (14) the provision specifying $25,000 for the Meredith-Dunn 
        Learning Disabilities Center, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky, for 
        technology shall be deemed to read as follows: ``Meredith-Dunn 
        Learning Disabilities Center, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky, for 
        school counseling services, $25,000'';
            (15) the provision specifying $40,000 for the Father 
        Maloney's Boys Haven, Louisville, Kentucky, for technology shall 
        be deemed to read as follows: ``Father Maloney's Boys Haven, 
        Louisville, Kentucky, for an educational program, $40,000'';
            (16) the provision specifying $50,000 for the Joel II 
        Restoration Ministries for education programs shall be deemed to 
        read as follows: ``Joel II Restoration Outreach, Inc., for 
        education programs, $50,000''; and
            (17) the provision specifying $1,500,000 for the City of 
        Upland, California, for after school programs shall be deemed to 
        read as follows: ``YMCA of the City of Upland, California, for 
        after-school activities, $1,500,000''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 598]]

                            higher education

    The matter under the heading ``Higher Education'', in Public Law 
108-7 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 330.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$2,100,701,000'' and inserting 
        ``$2,100,151,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``$140,599,000'' and inserting 
        ``$140,049,000''.

    In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-10), in the 
matter in title III of division G, relating to the Fund for the 
Improvement of Postsecondary Education under the heading ``Higher 
Education''--
            (1) the second reference to the provision specifying 
        $1,000,000 for the University of Massachusetts-Boston to 
        purchase research equipment and technology infrastructure shall 
        be deleted;
            (2) the provision specifying $500,000 for Harford County 
        Public Schools, Bel Air, MD, for support of a math and science 
        magnet school program at Aberdeen High School shall be deleted 
        and a provision shall be added that reads: ``American Academy of 
        Liberal Education, Washington, D.C., to develop projects and 
        survey best practices in the study of American democracy and 
        principles of free government at colleges and universities, 
        $100,000'';
            (3) the provision specifying $100,000 for Slippery Rock 
        University, Slippery Rock, PA, for Knowledge Pointe at Cranberry 
        Woods, as part of an initiative to provide life-long educational 
        services to Pittsburgh's regional industry and community 
        residents shall be deemed to read as follows: ``Regional 
        Learning Alliance, Marshall Township in Allegheny County, PA, as 
        part of an initiative to provide life-long educational services 
        to Pittsburgh's regional industry and community residents, 
        $200,000'';
            (4) the provision specifying $150,000 for Beresford 
        Community Education in Beresford, SD, to expand community 
        education programs shall be deleted;
            (5) the provision specifying $100,000 for Slippery Rock 
        University, Slippery Rock, Pennsylvania, for the North Hill 
        Educational Alliance shall be deleted;
            (6) the provision specifying $400,000 for the University of 
        Southern Maine, Portland, Maine, for telecommunications and 
        technology upgrades to support science, engineering and advanced 
        technology programs shall be deleted and the provision 
        specifying $600,000 for the University of Maine, School of 
        Applied Science, Engineering & Technology for purchase of 
        equipment and technology shall be deemed to read as follows: 
        ``University of Southern Maine, School of Applied Science, 
        Engineering & Technology for purchase of equipment and 
        technology, $1,000,000''; and
            (7) the provision specifying $250,000 to the National Aviary 
        Conservation Education Technology Integration in Pittsburgh 
        shall be deemed to read as follows: ``National Aviary 
        Conservation Education Technology Integration in Pittsburgh, for 
        the Remote Audio-Visual Engagement Network (RAVEN) project, 
        $250,000''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 599]]

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 2503. Section 1707(3) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6537(3)) is amended by striking ``17'' and 
inserting ``19''.
    Sec. 2504. Section 7304(a)(2)(P) of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 <<NOTE: 20 USC 7544.>> is amended by striking 
``such as'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``operated by''.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

             Corporation for National and Community Service

         domestic volunteer service programs, operating expenses

    The matter under the heading ``Corporation for National and 
Community Service, Domestic Volunteer Service Programs, Operating 
Expenses'', in Public Law 108-7 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 333.>> is amended by 
inserting after ``in this Act'' the following: ``for activities 
authorized by section 122 of part C of title I and part E of title II of 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973''.

                                CHAPTER 6

                   Subcommittee on Legislative Branch

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

    Sec. 2601. (a) The third sentence of section 1203(a) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-7, division 
H) is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 373.>> amended by striking ``not later than 90 
days'' and inserting ``not later than 180 days''.

    (b) The <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 1805 note.>> amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003.

    Sec. 2602. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Architect 
of the Capitol may obligate and expend such amounts from the Capitol 
Preservation Fund established under section 803 of the Arizona-Idaho 
Conservation Act of 1988 (2 U.S.C. 2083, formerly 40 U.S.C. 188a-2) as 
approved by the Capitol Preservation Commission established under 
section 801 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 2081, formerly 40 U.S.C. 188a) for the 
purposes of planning, engineering, design or construction of the Capitol 
Visitor Center.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

    Sec. 2603. The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public 
Law 108-7, division H) is amended in the item relating to ``Library of 
Congress--Salaries and Expenses'' by <<NOTE: Ante, p. 376.>> striking 
the period at the end and inserting the following: ``: Provided further, 
That of the amount transferred under this heading to the educational 
consortium formed to conduct the `Joining Hands Across America: Local 
Community Initiative', not more than $500,000 may be used for a math and 
science education pilot project.''.

    Sec. 2604. The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public 
Law 108-7, division H) is amended in the item relating to ``Library of 
Congress--Salaries and Expenses'' by striking ``North

[[Page 117 STAT. 600]]

Carolina'' and inserting the following: ``North Carolina, and for 
developing a high-capacity computer facility to serve that region''.

                                CHAPTER 7

     Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury and General Government

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2701. Section 336 of division I of <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
415.>> Public Law 108-7 is amended by striking ``Transportation 
Management'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Urbanized''.

    Sec. 2702. Section 321 of division I of <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
411.>> Public Law 108-7 is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``or underneath'' in subsection (q)(2) before 
        ``the Class B airspace'';
            (2) striking ``has sufficient capacity and'' in subsection 
        (q)(3) after ``Title 49''; and
            (3) inserting ``passenger'' in subsection (q)(3) before 
        ``delays''.

    Sec. 2703. Amounts made available to carry out sections 1212(k) and 
5117(b)(6) of 112 Stat. 107 et seq. shall be used to carry out item 
number 1278 of the table contained in section 1602 of such Act (112 
Stat. 263).
    Sec. 2704. It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the asset acquisition of Trans World Airlines by 
        American Airlines was a positive action that should be 
        commended;
            (2) although the acquisition was a positive action, the 
        combination of the two airlines has resulted in a difficult 
        seniority integration for the majority of the employee groups 
        involved;
            (3) airline layoffs from American Airlines should be 
        conducted in a manner that maintains the maximum level of 
        fairness and equitable treatment for all parties involved; and
            (4) American Airlines should encourage its employee groups 
        to integrate all employees in a manner that is fair and 
        equitable for all parties involved.

    Sec. 2705. No provision of this Act may be construed as altering or 
amending the force or effect of any of the following provisions of law 
as currently applied:
            (1) Sections 2631 and 2631a of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Sections 901(b) and 901b of the Merchant Marine Act, 
        1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(b), 1241f).
            (3) Public Resolution Numbered 17, Seventy-third Congress 
        (48 Stat. 500).
            (4) Any other similar provision of law requiring the use of 
        privately owned United States flag commercial vessels for 
        certain transportation purposes of the United States.

    Sec. 2706. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, projects 
and activities designated on pages 1267 through 1278 of the Joint 
Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference for Public Law 108-
7 shall be eligible for fiscal year 2003 funds made available from the 
program for which each project or activity is so designated and projects 
and activities on pages 1305 through 1307 shall be awarded those grants 
upon receipt of an application.

[[Page 117 STAT. 601]]

    (b) Public Law 108-7 is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 392.>> amended in the first 
paragraph under the heading ``Federal Highway Administration Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'' by striking ``$269,700,000'' and inserting 
``$299,745,000''.

    Sec. 2707. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under the heading ``Federal Transit Administration Formula 
Grants'' for fiscal year 2003 shall be available to finance the 
operating cost of equipment and facilities for use in public 
transportation in an urbanized area with a population of at least 
200,000 as determined under the 2000 Federal decennial census of 
population for a portion of the area that was not designated as an 
urbanized area as determined under the 1990 Federal decennial census of 
population if that portion of the area received assistance under section 
5311 of title 49, United States Code.
    Sec. 2708. Section 41743(c)(4) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``in 
each year for which funds are appropriated for the program''.
    Sec. 2709. Section 626 of title VI of division B of Public Law 108-7 
is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 106.>> amended by striking ``previously''.

    Sec. 2710. None of the funds in this Act or any other Act may be 
obligated or expended to pay for transportation described in section 
41106 of title 49, United States Code, to be performed by any air 
carrier that is not effectively controlled by citizens of the United 
States: Provided, That for purposes of implementing section 41106, an 
air carrier shall not be considered to be effectively controlled by 
citizens of the United States if the air carrier receives 50 percent or 
more of its operating revenue over the most recent 3-year period from a 
person not a citizen of the United States and such person, directly or 
indirectly, either owns a voting interest in the air carrier or is owned 
by an agency or instrumentality of a foreign state: Provided further, 
That this <<NOTE: Applicability.>> prohibition applies to transportation 
performed under any contract awarded or re-awarded after the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That when the Secretary of 
Defense decides that no air carrier holding a certificate under section 
41102 is capable of providing, and willing to provide, such 
transportation, the Secretary of Defense may make a contract to provide 
the transportation with an air carrier not having a certificate: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Transportation is directed to 
use an Administrative Law Judge in a formal proceeding to resolve docket 
number OST-2002-13089.

                                CHAPTER 8

 Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and 
                          Independent Agencies

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                       Departmental Administration

                       General Operating Expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for costs associated with processing claims 
of veterans who may have incurred injuries with service in the Persian 
Gulf War combat arena, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary may transfer

[[Page 117 STAT. 602]]

such sums as may be necessary to ``Veterans Health Administration, 
Medical Care'' to provide health care services as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. 1710(e)(1)(D) subject to a determination by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs that such additional funds are necessary: Provided 
further, That the <<NOTE: Notification.>> Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to the transfer or 
allocation of any funds provided under this paragraph.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

    The referenced statement of managers under the heading ``Community 
development fund'' in title II of Public Law 108-7 under grant No. 26 
under the Neighborhoods Initiative program is amended by striking 
``Glendale, Montana'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Glendive, 
Montana''.
    The referenced statement of managers under the heading ``Community 
development fund'' in title II of Public Law 106-377 is amended by 
striking ``$200,000 for Light of Life Ministries in Allegheny County, 
Pennsylvania for infrastructure improvements at the Serenity Village 
homeless programs'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$200,000 for Light 
of Life Ministries in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for renovation and 
infrastructure improvements for a homeless service center on Penn Avenue 
in Pittsburgh''.
    The referenced statement of managers under the heading ``Community 
development fund'' in title II of Public Law 108-7 under grant No. 201 
under the Economic Development Initiatives program is amended by 
striking ``the Clearwater Economic Development Association in 
Clearwater, Idaho'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``the State of 
Idaho''.
    The referenced statement of managers under the heading ``Community 
development fund'' in title II of Public Law 108-7 under grant No. 873 
under the Economic Development Initiatives program is amended by 
striking ``Grant County Commission in West Virginia'' and inserting in 
lieu thereof ``Grant County Library Commission in Grant County, West 
Virginia''.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Corporation for National and Community Service

       national and community service programs operating expenses

    To liquidate obligations previously incurred by the Corporation for 
National and Community Service (``Corporation''), up to $64,000,000 is 
provided to the National Service Trust: Provided, That the Corporation 
may use these funds only to liquidate the deficiency that it has already 
incurred and that these funds are not available for obligation, or to 
liquidate obligations, for any other purpose whatsoever: Provided 
further, That the Corporation may not use these funds unless and until 
it reports these overobligations to the Congress and the President in 
accordance with the requirements of the Antideficiency Act and the 
guidance of the Office of Management and Budget in OMB Circular A-11 
(2002):

[[Page 117 STAT. 603]]

Provided further, That the second proviso under the heading 
``Corporation for National and Community Service'' in Public Law 108-7 
is deemed to be <<NOTE: Ante, p. 506.>> amended by inserting after 
``section 501(a)(4)'' the following: ``with not less than $2,500,000 for 
the Office of the Chief Financial Officer to enact financial reform in 
the Corporation, without regard to the provisions of section 
501(a)(4)(B) of the Act''.

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-74 is deemed to be amended in reference to item number 
135, as amended, by striking everything after ``135.'' and inserting, 
``$437,000 for the Huntington Sanitary Board of Huntington, West 
Virginia for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities in the 
Fourpole Watershed; and $513,000 for the Region I Planning and 
Development Council in Princeton, West Virginia for water and wastewater 
infrastructure improvements'': Provided, That the referenced statement 
of the managers under this heading in Public Law 107-73 is deemed to be 
amended by striking everything after ``District'' in reference to item 
number 222 and inserting ``for water infrastructure improvements'': 
Provided further, That the referenced statement of the managers under 
this heading in Public Law 108-7 is deemed to be amended by striking 
everything after the word ``Agency'' in reference to item number 72 and 
inserting ``for the Mojave Desert Arsenic Demonstration Project''.

                        administrative provision

    Within 30 days <<NOTE: Deadline. 7 USC 136a-1 note.>> of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
shall adjust each ``maximum annual fee payable'' pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
136a-1(i)(5)(D) and (E) in a manner such that maintenance fee 
collections made to reach the level authorized in division K of Public 
Law 108-7 shall be established in the same proportion as those 
maintenance fee collections authorized in Public Law 107-73.

                       National Science Foundation

                     research and related activities

    The first sentence under this heading in Public Law 108-7 
is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 521.>> amended by striking ``$320,000,000'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``$330,000,000''.

 TITLE III--COLUMBIA <<NOTE: Columbia Orbiter Memorial Act. 38 USC 2409 
note.>> ORBITER MEMORIAL ACT

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Columbia Orbiter Memorial Act''.

SEC. 302. CONSTRUCTION <<NOTE: Virginia.>> OF MEMORIAL TO CREW OF 
            COLUMBIA ORBITER AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.

    (a) Construction Required.--The Secretary of the Army shall, in 
consultation with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, construct at an appropriate place in

[[Page 117 STAT. 604]]

Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, a memorial marker honoring the 
seven members of the crew of the Columbia Orbiter who died on February 
1, 2003, over the State of Texas during the landing of space shuttle 
mission STS-107.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Of the amount appropriated or otherwise 
made available by title II of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248) under the heading ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Army'', $500,000 shall be available for the construction of 
the memorial marker required by subsection (a).

SEC. 303. DONATIONS FOR MEMORIAL FOR CREW OF COLUMBIA ORBITER.

    (a) Authority To Accept Donations.--The Administrator of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration may accept gifts and 
donations of services, money, and property (including personal, 
tangible, or intangible property) for the purpose of an appropriate 
memorial or monument to the seven members of the crew of the Columbia 
Orbiter who died on February 1, 2003, over the State of Texas during the 
landing of space shuttle mission STS-107, whether such memorial or 
monument is constructed by the Administrator or is the memorial marker 
required by section 302.
    (b) Transfer.--(1) The Administrator may transfer to the Secretary 
of the Army any services, money, or property accepted by the 
Administrator under subsection (a) for the purpose of the construction 
of the memorial marker required by section 302.
    (2) Any moneys transferred to the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
shall be merged with amounts in the account referred to in subsection 
(b) of section 302, and shall be available for the purpose referred to 
in that subsection.
    (c) Expiration of Authority.--The authority of the Administrator to 
accept gifts and donations under subsection (a) shall expire 5 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                  TITLE IV--AVIATION-RELATED ASSISTANCE

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                 Transportation Security Administration

    For expenses and revenue forgone related to aviation security, 
$2,395,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003: Provided, 
That the first $100,000,000 of such amounts shall be available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, until expended to 
compensate air carriers for the direct costs associated with the 
strengthening of flight deck doors and locks on aircraft required by 
section 104(a)(1)(B) of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act: 
Provided further, That the remaining $2,295,750,000 of such amounts 
shall be remitted to United States flag air carriers in the proportional 
share each such carrier has paid or collected as of the date of 
enactment of this Act in passenger security and air carrier security 
fees to the Transportation Security Administration: Provided further, 
That payments made under the preceding proviso may be used by an air 
carrier for such purposes as the carrier determines appropriate: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>> payments made under this 
heading shall be distributed as a lump sum payment and made not later 
than 30 days after the date of enactment

[[Page 117 STAT. 605]]

of this Act: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Certification.>> the Transportation Security 
Administration, not later than 30 days after the last disbursement of 
funds made pursuant to the second proviso under this heading, shall 
certify that such funds were allocated by air carriers for security 
related expenses or revenue forgone as a result of meeting Federal 
security mandates and shall transmit such certification to the Senate 
Committee on Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation, the House of Representatives Committee on 
Appropriations, and the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure: Provided further, That the Under Secretary for Border 
and Transportation Security of the Department of Homeland Security shall 
not impose the fees authorized by section 44940(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, during the period beginning June 1, 2003, and ending 
September 30, 2003: Provided further, That: (1) Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of Homeland Security may not 
provide assistance to an air carrier pursuant to the second proviso 
under this heading unless that air carrier executes a contract with the 
Secretary under which the air carrier agrees that--
            (A) the air carrier will not provide total cash compensation 
        during the 12-month period beginning April 1, 2003, to an 
        executive officer in an amount equal to more than the annual 
        salary paid to that officer with respect to the air carrier's 
        fiscal year 2002; and
            (B) if the air carrier violates the agreement under 
        subparagraph (A), the air carrier will pay to the Secretary of 
        the Treasury, within 60 days after the date on which the 
        violation occurs, an amount, determined by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, equal to the total amount of assistance 
        received by the air carrier pursuant to the second proviso under 
        this heading.

    (2) For the purpose of applying paragraph (1) of this proviso to an 
executive officer--
            (A) who was employed by an air carrier for less than 12 
        months during the air carrier's fiscal year 2002, or whose 
        employment began after the last day of the last fiscal year of 
        such air carrier ending before the date of enactment of this 
        Act--
                    (i) the salary paid to that executive officer in 
                that air carrier's fiscal year 2002, or in the next 
                fiscal year of that air carrier (if such next fiscal 
                year began before the date of enactment of this Act), 
                respectively, shall be determined as an annual rate of 
                pay;
                    (ii) that annual rate of pay shall be treated as if 
                it were the annual salary paid to that executive officer 
                during the air carrier's fiscal year 2002; and
                    (iii) that executive officer shall be deemed to have 
                been employed during that fiscal year; and
            (B) whose employment begins after the date of enactment of 
        this Act--
                    (i) the annual salary at which that executive 
                officer is first employed by an air carrier may not 
                exceed the maximum salary paid to any executive officer 
                by that air carrier during that air carrier's fiscal 
                year 2002 with the same or similar responsibilities;

[[Page 117 STAT. 606]]

                    (ii) that salary shall be treated as if it were the 
                annual salary paid to the executive officer during that 
                air carrier's fiscal year 2002; and
                    (iii) the executive officer shall be deemed to have 
                been employed by that air carrier during that air 
                carrier's fiscal year 2002.

    (3) The Secretary shall not apply any of the conditions of this 
proviso for receiving assistance pursuant to the second proviso under 
this heading to any air carrier that operates aircraft exclusively with 
85 seats or less, any Hawaii-based carrier or any air carrier that does 
not operate trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic flights.
    (4)(A) The Comptroller <<NOTE: Records.>> General, or any of the 
Comptroller General's duly authorized representatives, shall have access 
for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, accounts, 
documents, papers, and records of air carriers entering into an 
agreement under this proviso that relate to the information required to 
implement the provisions of this proviso.

    (B) The Comptroller <<NOTE: Reports. Certification.>> General shall 
transmit a report of any investigation conducted under this proviso to 
the Senate Committee on Appropriations, the Senate Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the House of Representatives 
Committee on Appropriations, and the House of Representatives Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, together with a certification as 
to whether the Comptroller General has had access to sufficient 
information to make informed judgments on the matters covered by this 
report.

    (5) In this proviso, the following definitions apply:
            (A) The term ``executive officer'' means the two most highly 
        compensated named executive officers (as that term is used in 
        section 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Salaries 
        and Exchange Commission under the Securities and Exchange Act of 
        1934 (17 CFR 229.402(a)(3))).
            (B) The term ``salary'' means the base salary of an 
        individual, excluding any bonuses, awards of stock, or other 
        financial benefits provided by an air carrier to the individual.
            (C) The term ``total cash compensation'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``total compensation'' by section 104(b) of the 
        Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (49 
        U.S.C. 40101 note), but does not include awards of stock or 
        stock options or preexisting contracts governing retirement.

    (6) Nothing in this proviso shall be construed to prohibit or limit 
an air carrier in providing health benefits, life insurance benefits, or 
reimbursement of reasonable expenses to an executive officer.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 4001. (a) Section 44302(f)(1) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``2003'' each place it appears and inserting 
``2004''.
    (b) Section 44303(b) of such title is amended by striking ``2003'' 
and inserting ``2004''.
    (c) Section 44310 of such title is amended by striking ``2003'' and 
inserting ``2004''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 607]]

SEC. 4002. ADDITIONAL <<NOTE: 26 USC 3304 note.>> TEMPORARY EXTENDED 
            UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR DISPLACED AIRLINE RELATED 
            WORKERS.

    (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``eligible individual'' means an individual 
        whose eligibility for temporary extended unemployment 
        compensation under the Temporary Extended Unemployment 
        Compensation Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-147; 116 Stat. 21), as 
        amended by Public Law 108-1 (117 Stat. 3), is or would be based 
        on the exhaustion of regular compensation under State law, 
        entitlement to which was based in whole or in part on qualifying 
        employment performed during such individual's base period;
            (2) the term ``qualifying employment'', with respect to an 
        eligible individual, means employment--
                    (A) with an air carrier, employment at a facility at 
                an airport, or with an upstream producer or supplier for 
                an air carrier; and
                    (B) as determined by the Secretary, separation from 
                which was due, in whole or in part, to--
                          (i) reductions in service by an air carrier as 
                      a result of a terrorist action or security 
                      measure;
                          (ii) a closure of an airport in the United 
                      States as a result of a terrorist action or 
                      security measure; or
                          (iii) a military conflict with Iraq that has 
                      been authorized by Congress;
            (3) the term ``air carrier'' means an air carrier that holds 
        a certificate issued under chapter 411 of title 49, United 
        States Code;
            (4) the term ``upstream producer'' means a firm that 
        performs additional, value-added, production processes, 
        including firms that perform final assembly, finishing, or 
        packaging of articles, for another firm;
            (5) the term ``supplier'' means a firm that produces 
        component parts for, or articles and contract services 
        considered to be a part of the production process or services 
        for, another firm;
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Labor; and
            (7) the term ``terrorist action or security measure'' means 
        a terrorist attack on the United States on September 11, 2001, 
        or a security measure taken in response to such attack.

    (b) Additional Temporary <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Extended 
Unemployment Compensation for Eligible Individual.--In the case of an 
eligible individual, the Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-147; 116 Stat. 21), as amended by Public Law 
108-1 (117 Stat. 3), shall be applied as if it had been amended in 
accordance with subsection (c).

    (c) Modifications.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (b), the 
        Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2002 (Public 
        Law 107-147; 116 Stat. 21), as amended by Public Law 108-1 (117 
        Stat. 3), shall be treated as if it had been amended as provided 
        in this subsection.
            (2) Program extension.--Deem section 208 of the Temporary 
        Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2002,

[[Page 117 STAT. 608]]

        as amended by Public Law 108-1 (117 Stat. 3), <<NOTE: 26 USC 
        3304 note.>> to be amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 208. APPLICABILITY.

    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), an agreement entered 
into under this title shall apply to weeks of unemployment--
            ``(1) beginning after the date on which such agreement is 
        entered into; and
            ``(2) ending before December 29, 2003.

    ``(b) Transition for Amount Remaining in Account.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), in the case of 
        an individual who has amounts remaining in an account 
        established under section 203 as of December 28, 2003, temporary 
        extended unemployment compensation shall continue to be payable 
        to such individual from such amounts for any week beginning 
        after such date for which the individual meets the eligibility 
        requirements of this title, including such compensation payable 
        by reason of amounts deposited in such account after such date 
        pursuant to the application of subsection (c) of such section.
            ``(2) Limitation.--No compensation shall be payable by 
        reason of paragraph (1) for any week beginning after December 
        26, 2004.''.
            (3) Additional weeks of benefits.--Deem section 203 of the 
        Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2002, as 
        amended by <<NOTE: 26 USC 3304 note.>> Public Law 108-1 (117 
        Stat. 3), to be amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``50'' 
                      and inserting ``150''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``13'' and inserting ``39''; 
                      and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``\1/3\ of'' 
                after ``equal to''.
            (4) Effective date of modifications described in paragraph 
        (3).--
                    (A) In general.--The amendments described in 
                paragraph (3)--
                          (i) shall be deemed to have taken effect as if 
                      included in the enactment of the Temporary 
                      Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2002; 
                      but
                          (ii) shall be treated as applying only with 
                      respect to weeks of unemployment beginning on or 
                      after the date of enactment of this Act, subject 
                      to subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Special rules.--In the case of an eligible 
                individual for whom a temporary extended unemployment 
                account was established before the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the Temporary Extended Unemployment 
                Compensation Act of 2002 (as amended by this section) 
                shall be applied subject to the following:
                          (i) Any amounts deposited in the individual's 
                      temporary extended unemployment compensation 
                      account by reason of section 203(c) of such Act 
                      (commonly known as ``TEUC-X amounts'') before the 
                      date of enactment of this Act shall be treated as 
                      amounts deposited by reason of section 203(b) of 
                      such Act (commonly

[[Page 117 STAT. 609]]

                      known as ``TEUC amounts''), as deemed to have been 
                      amended by paragraph (3)(A).
                          (ii) For purposes of determining whether the 
                      individual is eligible for any TEUC-X amounts 
                      under such Act, as deemed to be amended by this 
                      subsection--
                                    (I) any determination made under 
                                section 203(c) of such Act before the 
                                application of the amendment described 
                                in paragraph (3)(B) shall be 
                                disregarded; and
                                    (II) any such determination shall 
                                instead be made by applying section 
                                203(c) of such Act, as deemed to be 
                                amended by paragraph (3)(B), as of the 
                                time that all amounts established in 
                                such account in accordance with section 
                                203(b) of such Act (as deemed to be 
                                amended under this subsection, and 
                                including any amounts described in 
                                clause (i)) are in fact exhausted.

TITLE V--PANEL TO REVIEW SEXUAL MISCONDUCT ALLEGATIONS AT UNITED STATES 
                            AIR FORCE ACADEMY

SEC. 501. ESTABLISHMENT OF PANEL.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a panel to review sexual 
misconduct allegations at the United States Air Force Academy.
    (b) Composition.--The panel shall be composed of seven members, 
appointed by the Secretary of Defense from among private United States 
citizens who have expertise in behavioral and psychological sciences and 
standards and practices relating to proper treatment of sexual assault 
victims (to include their medical and legal rights and needs), as well 
as the United States military academies.
    (c) Chairman.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with 
the Chairmen of the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House 
of Representatives, select the Chairman of the panel from among its 
members under subsection (b).
    (d) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.--Members shall be appointed 
for the life of the panel. Any vacancy in the panel shall be filled in 
the same manner as the original appointment.
    (e) Meetings.--The panel shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
    (f) Initial Organization <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Requirements.--(1) All 
original appointments to the panel shall be made not later than May 1, 
2003.

    (2) The Chairman shall convene the first meeting of the panel not 
later than May 8, 2003.

SEC. 502. DUTIES OF PANEL.

    (a) In General.--The panel established under section 501(a) shall 
carry out a study of the policies, management and organizational 
practices, and cultural elements of the United States Air Force Academy 
that were conducive to allowing sexual misconduct (including sexual 
assaults and rape) at the United States Air Force Academy.

[[Page 117 STAT. 610]]

    (b) Review.--In carrying out the study required by subsection (a), 
the panel shall--
            (1) review the actions taken by United States Air Force 
        Academy personnel and other Department of the Air Force 
        officials in response to allegations of sexual assaults at the 
        United States Air Force Academy;
            (2) review directives issued by the United States Air Force 
        pertaining to sexual misconduct at the United States Air Force 
        Academy;
            (3) review the effectiveness of the process, procedures, and 
        policies used at the United States Air Force Academy to respond 
        to allegations of sexual misconduct;
            (4) review the relationship between--
                    (A) the command climate for women at the United 
                States Air Force Academy, including factors that may 
                have produced a fear of retribution for reporting sexual 
                misconduct; and
                    (B) the circumstances that resulted in sexual 
                misconduct at the Academy;
            (5) review, evaluate, and assess such other matters and 
        materials as the panel considers appropriate for the study; and
            (6) review, and incorporate as appropriate, the findings of 
        ongoing studies being conducted by the Air Force General Counsel 
        and Inspector General.

    (c) Report.--(1) Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 90 days after 
its first meeting under section 501(f)(2), the panel shall submit a 
report on the study required by subsection 502(a) to the Secretary of 
Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives.

    (2) The report shall include--
            (A) the findings and conclusions of the panel as a result of 
        the study; and
            (B) any recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action that the panel considers appropriate in light of the 
        study.

SEC. 503. PERSONNEL MATTERS.

    (a) Pay of Members.--(1) Members of the panel established under 
section 501(a) shall serve without pay by reason of their work on the 
panel.
    (2) Section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, shall not apply to 
the acceptance of services of a member of the panel under this title.
    (b) Travel Expenses.--The members of the panel shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates 
authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular 
places of business in the performance of services for the panel.

[[Page 117 STAT. 611]]

                 TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 6001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Wartime Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2003''.

    Approved April 16, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1559 (S. 762):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 108-55 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 108-76 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-33 accompanying S. 762 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Apr. 3, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 7, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of S. 
                762.
            Apr. 12, House and Senate (pursuant to a unanimous-consent 
                agreement on Apr. 11) agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>