Public Law 110-5
110th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2007, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Feb. 15, 2007 -  [H.J. Res. 20]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,  <<NOTE: Revised Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007.>> That this joint resolution may be 
cited as the ``Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007''.

    Sec. 2. The Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 
109-289, division B), as amended by Public Laws 109-369 and 109-
383, <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 1311.>> is amended to read as follows:

        ``DIVISION B--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 2007

    ``The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable corporate 
or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several departments, 
agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of Government for 
fiscal year 2007, and for other purposes, namely:

             ``TITLE I--FULL-YEAR CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS

    ``Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at the level 
specified in subsection (c) and under the authority and conditions 
provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006, for 
projects or activities (including the costs of direct loans and loan 
guarantees) that are not otherwise provided for and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
            ``(1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(2) The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 
        2006.
            ``(3) The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(4) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(5) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(6) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(7) The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs 
        Appropriations Act, 2006.
            ``(8) The Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.

[[Page 121 STAT. 9]]

            ``(9) The Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
        Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and 
        Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 12651i note.>>  For purposes of this division, 
the term `level' means an amount.

    ``(c) The level referred to in subsection (a) shall be the amounts 
appropriated in the appropriations Acts referred to in such subsection, 
including transfers and obligation limitations, except that--
            ``(1) such level shall not include any amount designated as 
        an emergency requirement, or to be for overseas contingency 
        operations, pursuant to section 402 of H. Con. Res. 95 (109th 
        Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
        year 2006; and
            ``(2) such level shall be calculated without regard to any 
        rescission or cancellation of funds or contract authority, other 
        than--
                    ``(A) the 1 percent government-wide rescission made 
                by section 3801 of division B of Public Law 109-148;
                    ``(B) the 0.476 percent across-the-board rescission 
                made by section 439 of Public Law 109-54, relating to 
                the Department of the Interior, environment, and related 
                agencies; and
                    ``(C) the 0.28 percent across-the-board rescission 
                made by section 638 of Public Law 109-108, relating to 
                Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and related agencies.

    ``Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available 
to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    ``Sec. 103.  Appropriations provided by this division that, in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006, carried a multiple-
year or no-year period of availability shall retain a comparable period 
of availability.
    ``Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this 
division, the requirements, authorities, conditions, limitations, and 
other provisions of the appropriations Acts referred to in section 
101(a) shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 
106.
    ``Sec. 105.  No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were specifically prohibited during fiscal year 2006.
    ``Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this division or in 
the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made 
available and authority granted pursuant to this division shall be 
available through September 30, 2007.
    ``Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this division prior to 
the enactment of the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
provided by this division (or the applicable regular appropriations Act 
for fiscal year 2007) as in effect following such enactment.
    ``Sec. 108.  Funds appropriated by this division may be obligated 
and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C.

[[Page 121 STAT. 10]]

6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    ``Sec. 109.  With respect to any discretionary account for which 
advance appropriations were provided for fiscal year 2007 or 2008 in an 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006, the levels established by 
section 101 shall include advance appropriations in the same amount for 
fiscal year 2008 or 2009, respectively, with a comparable period of 
availability.
    ``Sec. 110. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2006, and for activities under the Food Stamp Act of 1977, the levels 
established by section 101 shall be the amounts necessary to maintain 
program levels under current law.
    ``(b) In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
the following amounts shall be available for the following accounts for 
advance payments for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008:
            ``(1) `Department of Labor, Employment Standards 
        Administration, Special Benefits for Disabled Coal Miners', for 
        benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
        Health Act of 1977, $68,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended.
            ``(2) `Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for 
        Medicare and Medicaid Services, Grants to States for Medicaid', 
        for payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on behalf 
        of States under title XIX of the Social Security Act, 
        $65,257,617,000, to remain available until expended.
            ``(3) `Department of Health and Human Services, 
        Administration for Children and Families, Payments to States for 
        Child Support Enforcement and Family Support Programs', for 
        payments to States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, 
        IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act 
        of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), $1,000,000,000, to remain 
        available until expended.
            ``(4) `Department of Health and Human Services, 
        Administration for Children and Families, Payments to States for 
        Foster Care and Adoption Assistance', for payments to States or 
        other non-Federal entities under title IV-E of the Social 
        Security Act, $1,810,000,000.
            ``(5) `Social Security Administration, Supplemental Security 
        Income Program', for benefit payments under title XVI of the 
        Social Security Act, $16,810,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended.

    ``Sec. 111. (a)(1) In addition to any amounts otherwise provided by 
this division, such sums as may be necessary are hereby appropriated to 
fund, for covered employees under a statutory pay system (as defined by 
section 5302 of title 5, United States Code), 50 percent of any increase 
in rates of pay which became effective under sections 5303 through 5304a 
of such title 5 in January 2007.
    ``(2)(A) In addition to any amounts otherwise provided by this 
division, such sums as may be necessary are hereby appropriated to 
provide the amount which would be necessary to fund, for covered 
employees not described in paragraph (1), 50 percent of the cost of an 
increase in rates of pay, calculated as if such employees were covered 
by paragraph (1) and as if such increase had been made on the first day 
of the first pay period beginning in January

[[Page 121 STAT. 11]]

2007 based on the rates that were in effect for such employees as of the 
day before such first day.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) is intended only to provide funding for pay 
increases for covered employees not described in paragraph (1). Nothing 
in subparagraph (A) shall be considered to modify, supersede, or render 
inapplicable the provisions of law in accordance with which the size or 
timing of any pay increase actually provided with respect to such 
employees is determined.
    ``(b) Appropriations under this section shall include funding for 
pay periods beginning on or after January 1, 2007, and the pay costs 
covered by this appropriation shall include 50 percent of the increases 
in agency contributions for employee benefits resulting from the pay 
increases described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) For purposes of this section, the term `covered employees' 
means employees whose pay is funded in whole or in part (including on a 
reimbursable basis) by any account for which funds are provided by this 
division (other than by chapters 2 and 11 of title II of this division) 
after October 4, 2006.
    ``Sec. 112.  A <<NOTE: Earmarks.>> ny language specifying an earmark 
in a committee report or statement of managers accompanying an 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006 shall have no legal effect with 
respect to funds appropriated by this division.

    ``Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Deadline. Operating plan.>> Within 30 days of 
the enactment of this section, each of the following departments and 
agencies shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate a spending, expenditure, or operating 
plan for fiscal year 2007 at a level of detail below the account level:
            ``(1) Department of Agriculture.
            ``(2) Department of Commerce, including the United States 
        Patent and Trademark Office.
            ``(3) Department of Defense, with respect to military 
        construction, family housing, the Department of Defense Base 
        Closure accounts, and `Defense Health Program'.
            ``(4) Department of Education.
            ``(5) Department of Energy.
            ``(6) Department of Health and Human Services.
            ``(7) Department of Housing and Urban Development.
            ``(8) Department of the Interior.
            ``(9) Department of Justice.
            ``(10) Department of Labor.
            ``(11) Department of State and United States Agency for 
        International Development.
            ``(12) Department of Transportation.
            ``(13) Department of the Treasury.
            ``(14) Department of Veterans Affairs, including 
        `Construction, Major Projects'.
            ``(15) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            ``(16) National Science Foundation.
            ``(17) The Judiciary.
            ``(18) Office of National Drug Control Policy.
            ``(19) General Services Administration.
            ``(20) Office of Personnel Management.
            ``(21) National Archives and Records Administration.
            ``(22) Environmental Protection Agency.
            ``(23) Indian Health Service.
            ``(24) Smithsonian Institution.
            ``(25) Social Security Administration.

[[Page 121 STAT. 12]]

            ``(26) Corporation for National and Community Service.
            ``(27) Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
            ``(28) Food and Drug Administration.

    ``Sec. 114. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> Within 15 days after the 
enactment of this section, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate--
            ``(1) a report specifying, by account, the amounts provided 
        by this division for executive branch departments and agencies; 
        and
            ``(2) a report specifying, by account, the amounts provided 
        by section 111 for executive branch departments and agencies.

    ``Sec. 115.  <<NOTE: Pay raise. Cancellation. 2 USC 31 
note.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of this division and 
notwithstanding section 601(a)(2) of the Legislative Reorganization Act 
of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31), the percentage adjustment scheduled to take 
effect under such section for 2007 shall not take effect.

 ``TITLE II--ELIMINATION OF EARMARKS, ADJUSTMENTS IN FUNDING, AND OTHER 
                               PROVISIONS

       ``CHAPTER 1--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

    ``Sec. 20101.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Agricultural Programs of the Department of 
Agriculture shall be as follows: `Common Computing Environment', 
$107,971,000; `Economic Research Service', $74,825,000; `National 
Agricultural Statistics Service', $146,543,000, of which up to 
$36,074,000 shall be available until expended for the Census of 
Agriculture; `Agricultural Research Service, Buildings and Facilities', 
$0; `Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
Research and Education Activities', $671,224,000; `Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service, Extension Activities', 
$450,252,000; `Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Salaries and 
Expenses', $841,970,000; `Agricultural Marketing Service, Payments to 
States and Possessions', $1,334,000; `Grain Inspection, Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, Salaries and Expenses', $37,564,000; `Food 
Safety and Inspection Service', $886,982,000; and `Farm Service Agency, 
Salaries and Expenses', $1,028,700,000.
    ``Sec. 20102.  The amounts included under the heading `Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension Service, Research and Education 
Activities' in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public 
Law 109-97) shall be applied to funds appropriated by this division as 
follows: by substituting `$322,597,000' for `$178,757,000'; by 
substituting `$30,008,000' for `$22,230,000'; by substituting `for 
payments to eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3222), $40,680,000' for `for 
payments to the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University 
and West Virginia State University (7 U.S.C. 3222), $37,591,000'; by 
substituting `$0' for `$128,223,000'; by substituting `competitive 
grants for agricultural research on improved pest control' for `special 
grants for agricultural research on improved pest control'; by 
substituting `$190,229,000' for `$183,000,000'; by substituting 
`$1,544,000' for `$1,039,000'; by substituting `competitive grants for 
the purpose

[[Page 121 STAT. 13]]

of carrying out all provisions of 7 U.S.C. 3242' for `noncompetitive 
grants for the purpose of carrying out all provisions of 7 U.S.C. 3242'; 
by substituting `to institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 
U.S.C. 3221 and 3222, $12,375,000' for `to colleges eligible to receive 
funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), 
including Tuskegee and West Virginia State University, $12,312,000'; by 
substituting `$3,342,000' for `$2,250,000'; by substituting 
`$10,083,000' for `$50,471,000'; by substituting `$2,561,000' for 
`$2,587,000'; and by substituting `$2,030,000' for `$2,051,000'.
    ``Sec. 20103.  The amounts included under the heading `Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension Service, Extension Activities' 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied to funds 
appropriated by this division as follows: by substituting `$285,565,000' 
for `$275,730,000'; by substituting `$3,321,000' for `$3,273,000'; by 
substituting `$63,538,000' for `$62,634,000'; by substituting `at 
institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222, 
$16,777,000' for `at the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee 
University and West Virginia State University, as authorized by section 
1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $16,777,000'; by 
substituting `$3,000,000' for `$1,196,000'; by substituting `payments 
for cooperative extension work by eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3221), 
$35,205,000' for `payments for cooperative extension work by the 
colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-
326 and 328) and Tuskegee University and West Virginia State University, 
$33,868,000'; and by substituting `$6,922,000' for `$25,390,000'.
    ``Sec. 20104.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Conservation Programs of the Department of 
Agriculture shall be as follows: `Natural Resources Conservation 
Service, Conservation Operations', $759,124,000; and `Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations', $0.
    ``Sec. 20105.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Rural Development Programs of the Department 
of Agriculture shall be as follows: `Rural Development Salaries and 
Expenses', $160,349,000; `Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural 
Cooperative Development Grants', $26,718,000; and `Rural Utilities 
Service, Rural Telephone Bank Program Account', $0.
    ``Sec. 20106.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Rural 
Housing Service, Rental Assistance Program' shall be $616,020,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2008, and the second and third 
provisos under such heading shall not apply to funds appropriated by 
this division. Using funds available in such account, the Secretary of 
Agriculture may enter into or renew contracts under section 521(a)(2) of 
the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490a(a)(2)) for two years. Any 
unexpended balances remaining at the end of such two-year agreements may 
be transferred and used for the purposes of any debt reduction; 
maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any existing projects; 
preservation; and rental assistance activities authorized under title V 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.).
    ``Sec. 20107.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Food and 
Nutrition Service, Child Nutrition Programs' shall be $13,345,487,000, 
of which $7,614,414,000 is appropriated funds and

[[Page 121 STAT. 14]]

$5,731,073,000 shall be derived by transfer from funds available under 
section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c).
    ``Sec. 20108.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Foreign Assistance and Related Programs of 
the Department of Agriculture shall be as follows: `Foreign Agricultural 
Service, Salaries and Expenses', $155,422,000; `Foreign Agricultural 
Service, Public Law 480 Title I Ocean Freight Differential Grants', $0; 
and `Foreign Agricultural Service, Public Law 480 Title II Grants', 
$1,214,711,000.
    ``Sec. 20109.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Food and 
Drug Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $1,965,207,000, of 
which $352,200,000 shall be derived from prescription drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, shall be credited to this account and 
remain available until expended, and shall not include any fees pursuant 
to 21 U.S.C. 379h(a)(2) and (a)(3) assessed for fiscal year 2008 but 
collected in fiscal year 2007, $43,726,000 shall be derived from medical 
device user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j and shall be credited to 
this account and remain available until expended, and $11,604,000 shall 
be derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended: 
Provided,  That fees derived from prescription drug, medical device, and 
animal drug assessments received during fiscal year 2007, including any 
such fees assessed prior to the current fiscal year but credited during 
the current year, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2007 limitation: 
Provided further,  That none of these funds shall be used to develop, 
establish, or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
9701: Provided further,  That of the total amount appropriated: (1) 
$453,180,000 shall be for the Center for Food Safety and Applied 
Nutrition and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (2) $567,594,000 shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation 
and Research and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs, of which not less than $34,900,000 shall be for the Office of 
Generic Drugs; (3) $209,180,000 shall be for the Center for Biologics 
Evaluation and Research and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $103,544,000 shall be for the Center for 
Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (5) $253,710,000 shall be for the Center for Devices 
and Radiological Health and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $41,751,000 shall be for the National Center 
for Toxicological Research; (7) $68,609,000 shall be for Rent and 
Related activities, of which $25,552,000 is for relocation expenses, 
other than the amounts paid to the General Services Administration for 
rent; (8) $146,013,000 shall be for payments to the General Services 
Administration for rent; and (9) $121,626,000 shall be for other 
activities, including the Office of the Commissioner, the Office of 
Management, the Office of External Relations, the Office of Policy and 
Planning, and central services for these offices.
    ``Sec. 20110.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Food and 
Drug Administration, Buildings and Facilities' shall be $4,950,000.
    ``Sec. 20111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following provisions included in the Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated

[[Page 121 STAT. 15]]

by this division: the last proviso under the heading `Common Computing 
Environment'; the provisos under the heading `Economic Research 
Service'; the third, fourth, sixth, and eighth through twelfth provisos 
under the heading `Agricultural Research Service, Salaries and 
Expenses'; the set-aside of funds under the heading `Agricultural 
Marketing Service, Payments to States and Possessions'; the set-aside of 
$753,252,000 under the heading `Food Safety and Inspection Service' and 
the first three provisos under such heading; the first proviso under the 
heading `Natural Resources Conservation Service, Resource Conservation 
and Development'; the set-aside of $5,600,000 in the seventh proviso 
under the heading `Rural Development Programs, Rural Community 
Advancement Program'; the first proviso under the heading `Rural 
Development Salaries and Expenses'; the second proviso in the second 
paragraph under the heading `Rural Housing Service, Rural Housing 
Insurance Fund Program Account'; the last paragraph under the heading 
`Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Economic Development Loans 
Program Account'; the set-aside of $2,500,000 under the heading `Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Cooperative Development Grants'; the 
proviso under the heading `Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural 
Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities Grants'; the last paragraph 
under the heading `Rural Utilities Service, Rural Telephone Bank Program 
Account'; the second proviso under the heading `Food and Nutrition 
Service, Food Stamp Program'; the first paragraph, including the proviso 
in such paragraph, under the heading `Foreign Agricultural Service, 
Public Law 480 Title I Direct Credit and Food for Progress Program 
Account'; and the first four provisos under the heading `Food and Drug 
Administration, Salaries and Expenses'.
    ``Sec. 20112.  The following provisions of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied to funds appropriated by this 
division by substituting `2007' and `2008' for `2006' and `2007', 
respectively, each place they appear: the second paragraph under the 
heading `Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Salaries and 
Expenses'; the availability of funds clause under the heading `Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, Conservation Operations'; the eighth 
proviso under the heading `Rural Development Programs, Rural Community 
Advancement Program'; the first proviso in the second paragraph under 
the heading `Rural Housing Service, Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program 
Account'; the proviso under the heading `Rural Housing Service, Mutual 
and Self-Help Housing Grants'; the fourth proviso under the heading 
`Rural Housing Service, Rural Housing Assistance Grants'; the three 
availability of funds clauses under the heading `Rural Business-
Cooperative Service, Rural Development Loan Fund Program Account'; the 
second proviso under the heading `Food and Nutrition Service, Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)'; 
section 719; section 734; and section 738.
    ``Sec. 20113.  <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b note.>> Section 704 of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied to the funds 
appropriated by this division by substituting `avian influenza programs' 
for `low pathogen avian influenza program'.

    ``Sec. 20114.  The following sections of title VII of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied to funds

[[Page 121 STAT. 16]]

appropriated by this division by substituting $0 for the following 
dollar amounts: section 721, $2,500,000; section 723, $1,250,000; 
section 755, $1,000,000; section 764, $650,000; section 766, $200,000; 
section 767, $2,250,000; section 779, $6,000,000; section 790, $140,000, 
$400,000, $200,000, $500,000, and $350,000; and section 791, $1,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20115.  The following sections of title VII of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply for fiscal 
year 2007: section 726; paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 754; section 
768; section 785; and section 789.
    ``Sec. 20116.  The following sections of title VII of the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 authorized or required certain 
actions by the Secretary of Agriculture that have been performed before 
the date of the enactment of this division and need not reoccur: section 
761; section 770; section 782; and section 783.
    ``Sec. 20117.  Of the unobligated balances under section 32 of the 
Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), $37,601,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20118.  Of the unobligated balances of funds provided 
pursuant to section 16(h)(1)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2025(h)(1)(A)), $11,200,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20119.  Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of 
credit payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 940c), $74,000,000 shall not be 
obligated and $74,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20120.  In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated or made 
available by this division, $31,000,000 is appropriated to the Secretary 
of Agriculture for the costs of loan and loan guarantees under the Rural 
Development Mission Area to ensure that the fiscal year 2006 program 
levels for such loan and loan guarantee programs are maintained for 
fiscal year 2007. The Secretary may transfer funds, to the extent 
practicable, among loan and loan guarantee programs within the Rural 
Development Mission Area to ensure that the fiscal year 2006 program 
levels for such programs and activities are maintained during fiscal 
year 2007.
    ``Sec. 20121.  For the programs and activities administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture under the Farm Service Agency, Agricultural 
Credit Insurance Fund, the Secretary may transfer funds made available 
by this division among programs and activities within such Fund: 
Provided,  That the fiscal year 2006 program levels for such programs 
and activities are at least maintained.
    ``Sec. 20122.  With respect to any loan or loan guarantee program 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture that has a negative credit 
subsidy score for fiscal year 2007, the program level for the loan or 
loan guarantee program, for the purposes of the Federal Credit Reform 
Act of 1990, shall be the program level established pursuant to such Act 
for fiscal year 2006.
    ``Sec. 20123.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall continue the Water 
and Waste Systems Direct Loan Program and the loan guarantee programs of 
the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund under the authority and 
conditions (including the borrower's interest rate and fees as of 
September 1, 2006) provided by the Agriculture,

[[Page 121 STAT. 17]]

Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006.
    ``Sec. 20124.  Of the appropriations available for payments for the 
nutrition and family education program for low-income areas under 
section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(d)), if the payment 
allocation pursuant to section 1425(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)) 
would be less than $100,000 for any institution eligible under section 
3(d)(2) of the Smith-Lever Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
adjust payment allocations under section 1425(c) of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to 
ensure that each institution receives a payment of not less than 
$100,000.

                   ``CHAPTER 2--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

    ``Sec. 20201.  For purposes of title I, the appropriations Acts 
listed in section 101(a) shall be deemed to include the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2006 for purposes of activities of the 
Department of Defense under the `Environmental Restoration' accounts.
    ``Sec. 20202.  In addition to amounts otherwise provided in this 
division or any other Act, amounts are appropriated for certain military 
activities of the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2007, as follows:
            ``(1) For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, 
        Army', $3,902,556,000, to be available for the basic allowance 
        for housing for members of the Army on active duty.
            ``(2) For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, 
        Navy', $3,726,778,000, to be available for the basic allowance 
        for housing for members of the Navy on active duty.
            ``(3) For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, 
        Marine Corps', $1,241,965,000, to be available for the basic 
        allowance for housing for members of the Marine Corps on active 
        duty.
            ``(4) For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, Air 
        Force', $3,278,835,000, to be available for the basic allowance 
        for housing for members of the Air Force on active duty.
            ``(5) For an additional amount for `Reserve Personnel, 
        Army', $321,642,000, to be available for the basic allowance for 
        housing for members of the Army Reserve on active duty.
            ``(6) For an additional amount for `Reserve Personnel, 
        Navy', $204,115,000, to be available for the basic allowance for 
        housing for members of the Navy Reserve on active duty.
            ``(7) For an additional amount for `Reserve Personnel, 
        Marine Corps', $43,082,000, to be available for the basic 
        allowance for housing for members of the Marine Corps Reserve on 
        active duty.
            ``(8) For an additional amount for `Reserve Personnel, Air 
        Force', $76,218,000, to be available for the basic allowance for 
        housing for members of the Air Force Reserve on active duty.
            ``(9) For an additional amount for `National Guard 
        Personnel, Army', $457,226,000, to be available for the basic 
        allowance for housing for members of the Army National Guard on 
        active duty.

[[Page 121 STAT. 18]]

            ``(10) For an additional amount for `National Guard 
        Personnel, Air Force', $258,000,000, to be available for the 
        basic allowance for housing for members of the Air National 
        Guard on active duty.
            ``(11) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Army', $1,810,774,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(12) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Navy', $1,202,313,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(13) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Marine Corps', $473,141,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(14) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air Force', $1,684,019,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(15) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Defense-Wide', $86,386,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(16) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Army Reserve', $202,326,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(17) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Navy Reserve', $52,136,000, to be available for 
        facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(18) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve', $10,004,000, to be available 
        for facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(19) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air Force Reserve', $53,850,000, to be available 
        for facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(20) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Army National Guard', $387,579,000, to be available 
        for facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.
            ``(21) For an additional amount for `Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air National Guard', $177,993,000, to be available 
        for facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization.

    ``Sec. 20203.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this 
division, amounts are appropriated for the Defense Health Program of the 
Department of Defense, as follows:
            ``(1) For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical 
        and health care programs of the Department of Defense, as 
        authorized by law, $21,217,000,000, of which $20,494,000,000 
        shall be for Operation and Maintenance, of which not to exceed 2 
        percent shall remain available until September 30, 2008, and of 
        which up to $10,887,784,000 may be available for contracts 
        entered into under the TRICARE program; of which $375,000,000, 
        to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2009, 
        shall be for Procurement; and of which $348,000,000, to remain 
        available for obligation until September 30, 2008, shall be for 
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation.
            ``(2) Of the amount made available in this section for 
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, $217,500,000 shall 
        be made available only for peer reviewed cancer research 
        activities, of which $127,500,000 shall be for breast cancer 
        research activities; of which $10,000,000 shall be for ovarian

[[Page 121 STAT. 19]]

        cancer research activities; and of which $80,000,000 shall be 
        for prostate cancer research activities.
            ``(3) Amounts made available in this section are subject to 
        the terms and conditions set forth in the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2007 (Public Law 109-289).

                ``CHAPTER 3--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT

    ``Sec. 20301.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Corps of Engineers, 
Construction', $2,334,440,000; and `Corps of Engineers, General 
Expenses', $166,300,000.
    ``Sec. 20302.  The limitation concerning total project costs in 
section 902 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, as amended 
(33 U.S.C. 2280), shall not apply during fiscal year 2007 to any project 
that received funds provided in this division.
    ``Sec. 20303.  All of the provisos under the heading `Corps of 
Engineers--Civil, Department of Army, Investigations' in Public Law 109-
103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20304.  All of the provisos under the heading `Corps of 
Engineers--Civil, Department of Army, Construction' in Public Law 109-
103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20305.  All of the provisos under the heading `Corps of 
Engineers--Civil, Department of Army, Flood Control, Mississippi River 
and Tributaries, Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, 
Missouri, and Tennessee' in Public Law 109-103 shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20306.  All of the provisos under the heading `Corps of 
Engineers--Civil, Department of Army, Operation and Maintenance' in 
Public Law 109-103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division.
    ``Sec. 20307.  The last proviso under the heading `Corps of 
Engineers--Civil, Department of Army, General Expenses' in Public Law 
109-103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20308.  Section 135 of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-103) shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20309.  The last proviso under the heading `Department of the 
Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Water and Related Resources' in Public 
Law 109-103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20310.  The last proviso under the heading `Department of the 
Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, California Bay-Delta Restoration' in 
Public Law 109-103 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division.
    ``Sec. 20311.  Section 208 of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-103) shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20312.  Section 8 of the Water Desalination Act of 1996 (42 
U.S.C. 10301 note) is amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (a) by striking `2006' and inserting 
        `2011'; and
            ``(2) in subsection (b) by striking `2006' and inserting 
        `2011'.

    ``Sec. 20313.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Department of Energy, Elk 
Hills School Lands Fund', $0; `Department of Energy, Northeast Home 
Heating Oil Reserve', $5,000,000; `Department of Energy,

[[Page 121 STAT. 20]]

Energy Information Administration', $90,314,000; `Department of Energy, 
Science', $3,796,393,000; `Department of Energy, Nuclear Waste 
Disposal', $99,000,000; `Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security 
Administration, Weapons Activities', $6,275,103,000; and `Department of 
Energy, Defense Environmental Cleanup', $5,730,448,000.
    ``Sec. 20314.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Energy, Energy Supply and Conservation' shall be 
$2,153,627,000, of which not less than $1,473,844,000 shall be for 
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Resources.
    ``Sec. 20315.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for salaries 
and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for departmental 
administration in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $35,000, shall be $275,789,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $43,075,000 shall be available for 
cyber-security activities and of which $7,000,000 shall be available for 
necessary administrative expenses of the loan guarantee program 
authorized in title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, plus such 
additional amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated 
amount of cost of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the 
Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): Provided, That such 
increases in cost of work are offset by revenue increases of the same or 
greater amount, to remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That moneys received by the Department for miscellaneous revenues 
estimated to total $123,000,000 in fiscal year 2007 may be retained and 
used for operating expenses within this account, and may remain 
available until expended, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-
238, notwithstanding the provisions of section 3302 of title 31, United 
States Code: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by the amount of miscellaneous revenues received during 2007, 
and any related appropriated receipt account balances remaining from 
prior years' miscellaneous revenues, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2007 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$152,789,000.
    ``Sec. 20316.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, Defense 
Nuclear Nonproliferation' shall be $1,683,339,000, of which $472,730,000 
shall be for International Nuclear Material Protection and Cooperation 
and of which $115,495,000 shall be for Global Threat Reduction 
Initiative.
    ``Sec. 20317.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for necessary 
expenses of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, including official representation expenses (not to exceed 
$15,000), and including purchase of promotional items for use in the 
recruitment of individuals for employment, shall be $813,300,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated herein, $45,700,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
Fund: Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $659,055,000 
in fiscal year 2007 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, 
United

[[Page 121 STAT. 21]]

States Code, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount 
of revenues received during fiscal year 2007 so as to result in a final 
fiscal year 2007 appropriation estimated at not more than $154,245,000.
    ``Sec. 20318.  <<NOTE: South Carolina. Effective date.>> The 
Secretary of Energy may not make available any of the funds provided by 
this division or previous appropriations Acts for construction 
activities for Project 99-D-143, mixed oxide fuel fabrication facility, 
Savannah River Site, South Carolina, until August 1, 2007.

    ``Sec. 20319. Section 302 of Public Law 102-377 <<NOTE: 42 USC 
7269a.>> is repealed.

    ``Sec. 20320. (a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 16515.>> Notwithstanding section 
101, subject to the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended, 
commitments to guarantee loans under title XVII of the Energy Policy Act 
of 2005 shall not exceed a total principal amount, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed, of $4,000,000,000: Provided, That there are 
appropriated for the cost of the guaranteed loans such sums as are 
hereafter derived from amounts received from borrowers pursuant to 
section 1702(b)(2) of that Act, to remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That the source of payments received from borrowers 
for the subsidy cost shall not be a loan or other debt obligation that 
is made or guaranteed by the Federal government. In addition, fees 
collected pursuant to section 1702(h) in fiscal year 2007 shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to the Departmental Administration 
account for administrative expenses of the Loan Guarantee Program: 
Provided further, That the sum appropriated for administrative expenses 
for the Loan Guarantee Program shall be reduced by the amount of fees 
received during fiscal year 2007: Provided further, That any fees 
collected under section 1702(h) in excess of the amount appropriated for 
administrative expenses shall not be available until appropriated.

    ``(b) No loan guarantees may be awarded under title XVII of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 until final regulations are issued that 
include--
            ``(1) programmatic, technical, and financial factors the 
        Secretary will use to select projects for loan guarantees;
            ``(2) policies and procedures for selecting and monitoring 
        lenders and loan performance; and
            ``(3) any other policies, procedures, or information 
        necessary to implement title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Audit. Annual review. Reports.>> The Secretary of 
Energy shall enter into an arrangement with an independent auditor for 
annual evaluations of the program under title XVII of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005. In addition to the independent audit, the Comptroller 
General shall conduct an annual review of the Department's execution of 
the program under title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The 
results of the independent audit and the Comptroller General's review 
shall be provided directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate.

    ``(d) <<NOTE: Regulations. Deadline.>> The Secretary of Energy shall 
promulgate final regulations for loan guarantees under title XVII of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 within 6 months of enactment of this division.

    ``(e) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this division, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
Energy shall transmit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate a report containing a summary of all 
activities under title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005,

[[Page 121 STAT. 22]]

beginning in fiscal year 2007, with a listing of responses to loan 
guarantee solicitations under such title, describing the technologies, 
amount of loan guarantee sought, and the applicants' assessment of risk.

    ``Sec. 20321.  For fiscal year 2007, except as otherwise provided by 
law in effect as of the date of enactment of this division or unless a 
rate is specifically set by an Act of Congress thereafter, the 
Administrators of the Southeastern Power Administration, the 
Southwestern Power Administration, the Western Power Administration, 
shall use the `yield' rate in computing interest during Construction and 
interest on the unpaid balance of the cost of Federal power facilities. 
The yield rate shall be defined as the average yield during the 
preceding fiscal year on interest-bearing marketable securities of the 
United States which, at the time the computation is made, have terms of 
15 years or more remaining to maturity.
    ``Sec. 20322.  The second proviso under the heading `Department of 
Energy, Energy Programs, Nuclear Waste Disposal' in title III of the 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-
103) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20323.  The provisos under the heading `Atomic Energy Defense 
Activities, National Nuclear Security Administration, Weapons 
Activities' in title III of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-103) shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20324.  The second proviso under the heading `Power Marketing 
Administrations, Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and 
Maintenance, Western Area Power Administration' in title III of the 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-
103) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20325. Title III of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-103) <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2280.>>  
is amended by striking sections 310 and 312.

    ``Sec. 20326.  Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, is 
amended by striking `October 1, 2006' and inserting `October 1, 2007'.

 ``CHAPTER 4--FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS

    ``Sec. 20401.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Export and Investment 
Assistance, Export-Import Bank of the United States, Subsidy 
Appropriation', $26,382,000; `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States', $273,900,000; 
`Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, Assistance for the Independent 
States of the Former Soviet Union', $452,000,000; `Bilateral Economic 
Assistance, Department of State, Andean Counterdrug Initiative', 
$721,500,000; `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Department of State, 
Migration and Refugee Assistance', $832,900,000; `Bilateral Economic 
Assistance, Department of State, United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund', $55,000,000; `Military Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Foreign

[[Page 121 STAT. 23]]

Military Financing Program', $4,550,800,000, of which not less than 
$2,340,000,000 shall be available for grants only for Israel and 
$1,300,000,000 shall be available for grants only for Egypt; and 
`Military Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, Peacekeeping 
Operations', $223,250,000, of which not less than $50,000,000 should be 
provided for peacekeeping operations in Sudan: Provided, That the number 
in the third proviso under the heading `Military Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Foreign Military Financing Program' in 
the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall be deemed to be 
$610,000,000 for the purpose of applying funds appropriated under such 
heading by this division.
    ``Sec. 20402.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Bilateral 
Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, Other 
Bilateral Economic Assistance, Economic Support Fund' shall be 
$2,455,010,000: Provided, That the number in the first proviso under the 
heading `Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, Economic Support Fund' in 
the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall be deemed to be 
$120,000,000 for the purpose of applying funds appropriated under such 
heading by this division: Provided further, That the number in the 
second proviso under the heading `Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Economic Support Fund' in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall be 
deemed to be $455,000,000 for the purpose of applying funds appropriated 
under such heading by this division: Provided further, That up to 
$50,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for the West Bank and 
Gaza and up to $50,000,000 shall be made available for the Middle East 
Partnership Initiative: Provided further, That not less than $5,000,000 
shall be made available for the fund established by section 2108 of 
Public Law 109-13: Provided further, That the fourteenth and twentieth 
provisos under the heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Economic Support Fund' in Public Law 109-102 shall not apply to funds 
made available under this division.
    ``Sec. 20403.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Bilateral Economic 
Assistance, Department of State, Global HIV/AIDS Initiative', 
$3,246,500,000, of which $377,500,000 shall be made available, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except for the United States 
Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-25) for a United States contribution to the Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and `Bilateral Economic 
Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, United States Agency 
for International Development, Child Survival and Health Programs Fund', 
$1,718,150,000, of which $248,000,000 shall be made available for 
programs and activities to combat malaria.
    ``Sec. 20404.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be $0: `Multilateral Economic Assistance, 
Funds Appropriated to the President, Contribution to the Multilateral 
Investment Guarantee Agency'; `Multilateral Economic Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Contribution to

[[Page 121 STAT. 24]]

the Inter-American Investment Corporation'; and `Multilateral Economic 
Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, Contribution to the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development'.
    ``Sec. 20405. (a) Of the unobligated balances available from funds 
appropriated under the heading `Funds Appropriated to the President, 
International Financial Institutions, Contribution to the International 
Development Association' in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102), 
$31,350,000 is rescinded.
    ``(b) Of the unobligated balances available from funds appropriated 
under the heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to 
the President, Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, Economic Support 
Fund', $200,000,000 is rescinded: Provided, That such amounts shall be 
derived only from funds not yet expended for cash transfer assistance.
    ``Sec. 20406.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the eighth proviso under the heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Funds Appropriated to the President, United States Agency for 
International Development, Development Assistance' in the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division.
    ``Sec. 20407. Section 599D of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 
109-102) <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2243. Reports.>> is amended by striking 
`certifies' and all that follows and inserting the following: `reports 
to the appropriate congressional committees on the extent to which the 
World Bank has completed the following:
            ```(1) World Bank procurement guidelines have been applied 
        to all procurement financed in whole or in part by a loan from 
        the World Bank or a credit agreement or grant from the 
        International Development Association (IDA).
            ```(2) The World Bank proposal ``Increasing the Use of 
        Country Systems in Procurement'' dated March 2005 has been 
        withdrawn.
            ```(3) The World Bank maintains a strong central procurement 
        office staffed with senior experts who are designated to address 
        commercial concerns, questions, and complaints regarding 
        procurement procedures and payments under IDA and World Bank 
        projects.
            ```(4) Thresholds for international competitive bidding have 
        been established to maximize international competitive bidding 
        in accordance with sound procurement practices, including 
        transparency, competition, and cost-effective results for the 
        Borrowers.
            ```(5) All tenders under the World Bank's national 
        competitive bidding provisions are subject to the same 
        advertisement requirements as tenders under international 
        competitive bidding.
            ```(6) Loan agreements between the World Bank and the 
        Borrowers have been made public.'.

    ``Sec. 20408.  Section 523 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 
109-102) shall be applied to funds made available under this division by 
substituting `$1,022,086,000' for the first dollar amount.

[[Page 121 STAT. 25]]

    ``Sec. 20409.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following provisions in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall 
not apply to funds appropriated by this division: the proviso in 
subsection (a) under the heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, Other Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'; the eleventh 
proviso under the heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds 
Appropriated to the President, United States Agency for International 
Development, Development Assistance'; the third proviso under the 
heading `Bilateral Economic Assistance, Department of State, Migration 
and Refugee Assistance'; subsection (d) under the heading `Bilateral 
Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, Other 
Bilateral Economic Assistance, Assistance for the Independent States of 
the Former Soviet Union'; the fourth proviso of section 522; subsections 
(a) and (c) of section 554; and the first proviso of section 593.
    ``Sec. 20410.  The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 
283-283z-10) is amended by adding at the end the following:

```SEC. 39. <<NOTE: 22 USC 283z-11.>> FIRST REPLENISHMENT OF THE 
            RESOURCES OF THE ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS MULTILATERAL 
            INVESTMENT FUND.

    ```(a) Contribution Authority.--
            ```(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury may 
        contribute on behalf of the United States $150,000,000 to the 
        first replenishment of the resources of the Enterprise for the 
        Americas Multilateral Investment Fund.
            ```(2) Subject to appropriations.--The authority provided by 
        paragraph (1) may be exercised only to the extent and in the 
        amounts provided for in advance in appropriations Acts.

    ```(b) Limitations on Authorization of Appropriations.--For the 
United States contribution authorized by subsection (a), there are 
authorized to be appropriated not more than $150,000,000, without fiscal 
year limitation, for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
    ``Sec. 20411.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The authority provided by 
section 801(b)(1)(ii) of Public Law 106-429 shall apply to fiscal year 
2007.

    ``Sec. 20412. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
division, section 534(m) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall 
not apply to funds and authorities provided under this division.
    ``(b) The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
            ``(1) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                    ``(A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking `and 2006' 
                and inserting `2006, and 2007'; and
                    ``(B) in subsection (e), by striking `2006' each 
                place it appears and inserting `2007'; and
            ``(2) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note), in subsection 
        (b)(2), by striking `2006' and inserting `2007'.

    ``Sec. 20413.  <<NOTE: President. Reports.>> Notwithstanding section 
653(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2413), the 
President shall transmit to Congress the report required under section 
653(a) of that Act with respect to the provision of funds appropriated 
by

[[Page 121 STAT. 26]]

this division: Provided, That such report shall include a comparison of 
amounts, by category of assistance, provided or intended to be provided 
from funds appropriated for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, for each country 
and international organization.

    ``Sec. 20414.  The seventh proviso under the heading `Bilateral 
Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, United States 
Agency for International Development, Child Survival and Health Programs 
Fund' of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) shall be applied to funds 
made available under this division by substituting `The GAVI Fund' for 
`The Vaccine Fund'.
    ``Sec. 20415.  Section 501(i) of H.R. 3425, as enacted into law by 
section l000(a)(5) of division B of Public Law 106-113 (Appendix E, 113 
Stat. 1501A-313), as amended by section 591(b) of division D of Public 
Law 108-447 (118 Stat. 3037), shall apply to fiscal year 2007.

   ``CHAPTER 5--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

    ``Sec. 20501.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Bureau of Land Management, 
Management of Lands and Resources', $862,632,000; `United States Fish 
and Wildlife Service, Resource Management', $1,009,037,000; `National 
Park Service, Historic Preservation Fund', $55,663,000; `United States 
Geological Survey, Surveys, Investigations, and Research', $977,675,000; 
and `Environmental Protection Agency, Hazardous Substance Superfund', 
$1,251,574,000.
    ``Sec. 20502.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `National 
Park Service, Operation of the National Park Service', shall be 
$1,758,415,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 may be transferred to 
the United States Park Police.
    ``Sec. 20503.  Notwithstanding section 101, under `National Park 
Service, Construction', the designations under Public Law 109-54 of 
specific amounts and sources of funding for modified water deliveries 
and the national historic landmark shall not apply.
    ``Sec. 20504.  <<NOTE: 16 USC 460l-10a note.>> The contract 
authority provided for fiscal year 2007 under the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-10a) is rescinded.

    ``Sec. 20505.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Bureau of 
Indian Affairs, Indian Land and Water Claim Settlements and 
Miscellaneous Payments to Indians', shall be $42,000,000 for payments 
required for settlements approved by Congress or a court of competent 
jurisdiction.
    ``Sec. 20506.  Notwithstanding section 101, the `Minerals Management 
Service, Royalty and Offshore Minerals Management' shall credit an 
amount not to exceed $128,730,000 under the same terms and conditions of 
the credit to said account as in Public Law 109-54. To the extent 
$128,730,000 in addition to receipts are not realized from sources of 
receipts stated above, the amount needed to reach $128,730,000 shall be 
credited to this appropriation from receipts resulting from rental rates 
for Outer Continental Shelf leases in effect before August 5, 1993.
    ``Sec. 20507.  Notwithstanding section 101, within the amounts made 
available under `Environmental Protection Agency, State and Tribal 
Assistance Grants', $1,083,817, 000, shall be for making

[[Page 121 STAT. 27]]

capitalization grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under 
title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, and no 
funds shall be available for making special project grants for the 
construction of drinking water, wastewater, and storm water 
infrastructure and for water quality protection in accordance with the 
terms and conditions specified for such grants in the joint explanatory 
statement of the mangers in Conference Report 109-188.
    ``Sec. 20508.  Notwithstanding section 101, for `Forest Service, 
State and Private Forestry', the $1,000,000 specified in the second 
proviso and the $1,500,000 specified in the third proviso in Public Law 
109-54 are not required.
    ``Sec. 20509.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Forest 
Service, National Forest System', shall be $1,445,646,000, except that 
the $5,000,000 specified as an additional regional allocation is not 
required.
    ``Sec. 20510.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Forest 
Service, Wildland Fire Management', shall be $1,816,091,000 of which the 
allocation provided for fire suppression operations shall be 
$741,477,000; the allocation for hazardous fuels reduction shall be 
$298,828,000; and other funding allocations and terms and conditions 
shall follow Public Law 109-54.
    ``Sec. 20511.  Notwithstanding section 101, of the level for `Forest 
Service, Capital Improvement and Maintenance', the $3,000,000 specified 
in the third proviso is not required.
    ``Sec. 20512.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Indian 
Health Service, Indian Health Services', shall be $2,817,099,000 and the 
$15,000,000 allocation of funding under the eleventh proviso shall not 
be required.
    ``Sec. 20513.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Smithsonian Institution, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $533,218,000, 
except that current terms and conditions shall not be interpreted to 
require a specific grant for the Council of American Overseas Research 
Centers or for the reopening of the Patent Office Building.
    ``Sec. 20514.  Notwithstanding section 101, no additional funding is 
made available by this division for fiscal year 2007 based on the terms 
of section 134 and section 437 of Public Law 109-54.
    ``Sec. 20515. Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Bureau of 
Indian Affairs, Operation of Indian Programs' shall be $1,984,190,000, 
of which not less than $75,477,000 is for post-secondary education 
programs.
    ``Sec. 20516.  <<NOTE: Regulations.>> The rule referenced in section 
126 of Public Law 109-54 shall continue in effect for the 2006-2007 
winter use season.

    ``Sec. 20517.  <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 524.>> Section 123 of Public Law 
109-54 is amended by striking `9' in the first sentence and inserting 
`10'.

    ``Sec. 20518.  For fiscal year 2007, the Minerals Management Service 
may retain 3 percent of the amounts disbursed under section 31(b)(1) of 
the Coastal Impact Assistance Program, authorized by section 31 of the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1456(a)), for 
administrative costs, to remain available until expended.
    ``Sec. 20519.  <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Of the funds made available in 
section 8098(b) of Public Law 108-287, to construct a wildfire 
management training facility, $7,400,000 shall be transferred not later 
than 15 days after the date of the enactment of the Continuing 
Appropriations

[[Page 121 STAT. 28]]

Resolution, 2007, to the ``Forest Service, Wildland Fire Management'' 
account and shall be available for hazardous fuels reduction, hazard 
mitigation, and rehabilitation activities of the Forest Service.

    ``Sec. 20520. Section 337 of division E of Public Law 108-
44 <<NOTE: 118 Stat. 3102.>> 7 is amended by striking `2006' and 
inserting `2007'.

    ``Sec. 20521. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available to 
the Department of the Interior may be used, in relation to any proposal 
to store water for the purpose of export, for approval of any right-of-
way or similar authorization on the Mojave National Preserve or lands 
managed by the Needles Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management or 
for carrying out any activities associated with such right-of-way or 
similar approval.

   ``CHAPTER 6--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
                     EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

    ``Sec. 20601. (a)(1) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Employment and Training Administration, Training and Employment 
Services' shall be $2,670,730,000 plus reimbursements.
    ``(2) Of the amount provided in paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) $1,672,810,000 shall be available for obligation for 
        the period July 1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, of which: (i) 
        $341,811,000 shall be for dislocated worker employment and 
        training activities; (ii) $70,092,000 shall be for the 
        dislocated workers assistance national reserve; (iii) 
        $79,752,000 shall be for migrant and seasonal farmworkers, 
        including $74,302,000 for formula grants, $4,950,000 for migrant 
        and seasonal housing (of which not less than 70 percent shall be 
        for permanent housing), and $500,000 for other discretionary 
        purposes; (iv) $878,538,000 shall be for Job Corps operations; 
        (v) $14,700,000 shall be for carrying out pilots, 
        demonstrations, and research activities authorized by section 
        171(d) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998;(vi) $49,104,000 
        shall be for Responsible Reintegration of Youthful Offenders; 
        (vii) $4,921,000 shall be for Evaluation; and (viii) not less 
        than $1,000,000 shall be for carrying out the Women in 
        Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations Act (29 U.S.C. 
        2501 et seq.);
            ``(B) $990,000,000 shall be available for obligation for the 
        period April 1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, for youth 
        activities, of which $49,500,000 shall be available for the 
        Youthbuild Program; and
            ``(C) $7,920,000 shall be available for obligation for the 
        period July 1, 2007, through June 30, 2010, for necessary 
        expenses of construction, rehabilitation and acquisition of Job 
        Corps centers.

    ``(3) <<NOTE: Grants.>> The Secretary of Labor shall award the 
following grants on a competitive basis: (A) Community College 
Initiative grants or Community-Based Job Training Grants awarded from 
amounts provided for such purpose under section 109 of this division and 
under the Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 2006; and (B) grants 
for job training for employment in high growth industries awarded during 
fiscal year 2007 under section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness 
and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998.

    ``(4) None of the funds made available in this division or any other 
Act shall be available to finalize or implement any proposed

[[Page 121 STAT. 29]]

regulation under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Wagner-Peyser Act 
of 1933, or the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 until 
such time as legislation reauthorizing the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 and the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 is enacted.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Employment and 
Training Administration, Program Administration' shall be $116,702,000 
(together with not to exceed $82,049,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund), of which $28,578,000 shall be for necessary expenses for the 
Office of Job Corps.
    ``(c) None of the funds made available in this division or under the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be used to reduce Job 
Corps total student training slots below 44,491 in program year 2006 or 
program year 2007.
    ``(d) <<NOTE: Grants.>> Of the funds available under the heading 
`Employment and Training Administration, Training and Employment 
Services' in the Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 2006 for the 
Responsible Reintegration of Youthful Offenders, $25,000,000 shall be 
used for grants to local educational agencies to discourage youth in 
high-crime urban areas from involvement in violent crime.

    ``(e) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Employment and 
Training Administration, Community Service Employment for Older 
Americans' shall be $483,611,000.
    ``(f) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for administrative 
expenses of `Employment and Training Administration, State Unemployment 
Insurance and Employment Service Operations' shall be $106,252,000 
(together with not to exceed $3,234,098,000, which may be expended from 
the Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund), of which $63,855,000 shall be available for one-stop career 
centers and labor market information activities. For purposes of this 
division, the first proviso under such heading in the Department of 
Labor Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied by substituting `2007' 
and `2,703,000' for `2006' and `2,800,000', respectively.
    ``Sec. 20602.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Employee 
Benefits Security Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be 
$140,834,000, of which no less than $5,000,000 shall be for the 
development of an electronic Form 5500 filing system (EFAST2).
    ``Sec. 20603.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Employment Standards Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be 
$416,308,000 (together with $2,028,000 which may be expended from the 
Special Fund in accordance with sections 39 (c), 44(d), and 44(j) of the 
Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act).
    ``Sec. 20604.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Salaries and Expenses' 
shall be $485,074,000, of which $7,500,000 shall be for continued 
development of the Occupational Safety and Health Information System, 
and of which $10,116,000 shall be for the Susan Harwood training grants 
program. Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the fifth 
proviso under such heading in the Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.

[[Page 121 STAT. 30]]

    ``Sec. 20605.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Mine 
Safety and Health Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be 
$299,836,000.
    ``Sec. 20606.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $468,512,000 (together 
with not to exceed $77,067,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund).
    ``Sec. 20607.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Departmental Management, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $297,272,000 
(together with not to exceed $308,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund), of which $72,516,000 shall be for contracts, grants, or other 
arrangements of Departmental activities conducted by or through the 
Bureau of International Labor Affairs, including $60,390,000 for child 
labor activities, and of which not to exceed $6,875,000 may remain 
available until September 30, 2008, for Frances Perkins Building 
Security Enhancements.
    ``Sec. 20608. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Veterans Employment and Training, Salaries and Expenses' shall not 
exceed $193,753,000 which may be derived from the Employment Security 
Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry out the 
provisions of sections 4100 through 4113, 4211 through 4215, and 4321 
through 4327 of title 38, United States Code, and Public Law 103-353, of 
which $1,967,000 is for the National Veterans Employment and Training 
Services Institute.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 101, the level to carry out the 
Homeless Veterans Reintegration Programs and the Veterans Workforce 
Investment Programs shall be $29,244,000, of which $7,435,000 shall be 
available for obligation for the period July 1, 2007, through June 30, 
2008.
    ``Sec. 20609.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Office of 
the Inspector General' shall be $66,783,000 (together with not to exceed 
$5,552,000, which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund).
    ``Sec. 20610.  Section 193 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 
(29 U.S.C. 2943) is amended to read as follows:

```SEC. 193. TRANSFER OF FEDERAL EQUITY IN STATE EMPLOYMENT SECURITY 
            REAL PROPERTY TO THE STATES.

    ```(a) Transfer of Federal Equity.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any Federal equity acquired in real property through 
grants to States awarded under title III of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 501 et seq.) or under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et 
seq.) is transferred to the States that used the grants for the 
acquisition of such equity. The portion of any real property that is 
attributable to the Federal equity transferred under this section shall 
be used to carry out activities authorized under this Act, the Wagner-
Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), or title III of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 501 et seq.). Any disposition of such real property shall 
be carried out in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the 
Secretary and the portion of the proceeds from the disposition of such 
real property that is attributable to the Federal equity transferred 
under this section shall be used to carry out activities authorized 
under this

[[Page 121 STAT. 31]]

Act, the Wagner-Peyser Act, or title III of the Social Security Act.
    ```(b) Limitation on Use.--A State shall not use funds awarded under 
this Act, the Wagner-Peyser Act, or title III of the Social Security Act 
to amortize the costs of real property that is purchased by any State on 
or after the date of enactment of the Revised Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007.'.
    ``Sec. 20611. (a)(1) Notwithstanding section 101 or any other 
provision of this division, the level for `Department of Health and 
Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Health 
Resources and Services' shall be $6,883,586,000.
    ``(2) Of the amount provided in paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) $1,988,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 330 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b; relating to 
        health centers), of which $25,000,000 shall be for base grant 
        adjustments for existing health centers and $13,959,000 shall be 
        for carrying out Public Law 100-579, as amended by section 9168 
        of Public Law 102-396 (42 U.S.C. 11701 et seq.);
            ``(B) $184,746,000 shall be for carrying out title VII of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292 et seq.; relating 
        to health professions programs) of which: (i) $31,548,000 shall 
        be for carrying out section 753 of the Public Health Service Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 294c; relating to geriatric programs); and (ii) 
        $48,851,000 shall be for carrying out section 747 of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293k; relating to training in 
        primary care medicine and dentistry), of which: (I) not less 
        than $5,000,000 shall be for pediatric dentistry programs; (II) 
        not less than $5,000,000 shall be for general dentistry 
        programs; and (III) not less than $24,614,000 shall be for 
        family medicine programs;
            ``(C) $1,195,500,000 shall be for carrying out part B of 
        title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-11 
        et seq.; relating to Ryan White CARE Grants); and
            ``(D) $495,000,000 shall be transferred to `Department of 
        Health and Human Services, Office of the Secretary, Public 
        Health and Social Services Emergency Fund' to carry out sections 
        319C-2, 319F, and 319I of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 247d-3b, 247d-6, 247d-7b; relating to hospital 
        preparedness grants, bioterrorism training and curriculum 
        development, and credentialing/emergency systems for advance 
        registration of volunteer health professionals).

    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the 
parenthetical preceding the first proviso under the heading `Department 
of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services 
Administration, Health Resources and Services' in the Department of 
Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by this division.
    ``(c) Amounts made available by this division to carry out parts A 
and B of title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300ff-11 
et seq.; relating to Ryan White Emergency Relief Grants and CARE Grants) 
shall remain available for obligation by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services through September 30, 2009.
    ``(d) Any assets and liabilities associated with any program under 
section 319C-2, 319F, or 319I of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 247d-3b, 247d-6, 247d-7b; relating to hospital

[[Page 121 STAT. 32]]

preparedness grants, bioterrorism training and curriculum development, 
and credentialing/emergency systems for advance registration of 
volunteer health professionals) shall be permanently transferred to the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    ``Sec. 20612.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services 
Administration, Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust Fund', for 
necessary administrative expenses, shall not exceed $3,964,000.
    ``Sec. 20613. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention; Disease Control, Research, and Training' shall be 
$5,829,086,000, of which: (1) $456,863,000 shall be for carrying out the 
immunization program authorized by section 317(a), (j), and (k)(1) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b(a), (j), and (k)(1)); (2) 
$99,000,000 shall be for carrying out part A of title XIX of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300w et seq.; relating to preventive 
health and health services block grants); and (3) $134,400,000 shall be 
for equipment, construction, and renovation of facilities.
    ``(b) None of the funds appropriated by this division may be used 
to: (1) implement section 2625 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300ff-33; relating to the Ryan White early diagnosis grant 
program); or (2) enter into contracts for annual bulk monovalent 
influenza vaccine.
    ``(c) Of the amounts made available in the Department of Health and 
Human Services Appropriations Act, 2006 for `Department of Health and 
Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Disease 
Control, Research, and Training', $29,680,000 for entering into 
contracts for annual bulk monovalent influenza vaccine is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20614. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the levels for the 
following accounts of the Department of Health and Human Services, 
National Institutes of Health, shall be as follows: `National Institute 
of Child Health and Human Development', $1,253,769,000; `National Center 
for Research Resources', $1,133,101,000; `National Center on Minority 
Health and Health Disparities', $199,405,000; `National Library of 
Medicine', $319,910,000; and `Office of the Director', $1,095,566,000, 
of which up to $14,000,000 may be used to carry out section 217 of the 
Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2006, 
$69,000,000 shall be available to carry out the National Children's 
Study, and $483,000,000 shall be available for the Common Fund 
established under section 402A(c)(1) of the Public Health Service Act.
    ``(b) The seventh, eighth, and ninth provisos under the heading 
`Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, 
Office of the Director' in the Department of Health and Human Services 
Appropriations Act, 2006, pertaining to the National Institutes of 
Health Roadmap for Medical Research, shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``(c) Funds appropriated by this division to the Institutes and 
Centers of the National Institutes of Health may be expended for 
improvements and repairs of facilities, as necessary for the proper and 
efficient conduct of the activities authorized herein, not to exceed 
$2,500,000 per project.
    ``Sec. 20615. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services, Program Management' shall be

[[Page 121 STAT. 33]]

$3,136,006,000, of which $15,892,000 shall be for Real Choice Systems 
Change Grants to States, $48,960,000 shall be for contract costs for the 
Healthcare Integrated General Ledger Accounting System, and $106,260,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2008, for contracting reform 
activities of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
    ``(b) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall charge fees 
necessary to cover the costs incurred under `Department of Health and 
Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Program 
Management' for conducting revisit surveys on health care facilities 
cited for deficiencies during initial certification, recertification, or 
substantiated complaints surveys. Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 
31, United States Code, receipts from such fees shall be credited to 
such account as offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for conducting such surveys.
    ``Sec. 20616.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the provision of the Department of Health and Human Services 
Appropriations Act, 2006, `Department of Health and Human Services, 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Health Maintenance 
Organization Loan and Loan Guarantee Fund', shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20617.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children 
and Families, Refugee and Entrant Assistance' shall be $587,823,000, of 
which $95,302,000 shall be for costs associated with the care and 
placement of unaccompanied alien children under section 462 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279).
    ``Sec. 20618.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the first proviso under the heading `Department of Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Payments to States 
for the Child Care and Development Block Grant' in the Department of 
Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2006 may be applied to 
child care resource and referral and school-aged child care activities 
without regard to any specific designation therein.
    ``Sec. 20619.  <<NOTE: Grants.>> Notwithstanding section 101, the 
level for `Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for 
Children and Families, Children and Families Services Programs' shall be 
$8,937,059,000, of which: (1) $6,888,571,000 shall be for making 
payments under the Head Start Act; (2) $186,365,000 shall be for Federal 
administration; and (3) $5,000,000 shall be for grants to States for 
adoption incentive payments, as authorized by section 473A of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 673b).

    ``Sec. 20620.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Aging, Aging 
Services Programs' shall be $1,382,859,000, of which $398,919,000 shall 
be for Congregate Nutrition Services and $188,305,000 shall be for Home-
Delivered Nutrition Services.
    ``Sec. 20621.  <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notwithstanding section 101, the 
level for `Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health and 
Social Services Emergency Fund' shall be $160,027,000, of which 
$100,000,000 shall be transferred within 30 days of enactment of the 
Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, to `Department of 
Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 
Disease Control, Research, and Training'

[[Page 121 STAT. 34]]

for preparedness and response to pandemic influenza and other emerging 
infectious diseases.

    ``Sec. 20622.  Notwithstanding section 208 of the Department of 
Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2006, not to exceed 1 
percent of any discretionary funds (pursuant to the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985) that are appropriated for the 
current fiscal year for the Department of Health and Human Services in 
this division may be transferred among appropriations, but no such 
appropriation to which such funds are transferred may be increased by 
more than 3 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That an 
appropriation may be increased by up to an additional 2 percent subject 
to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority granted by this section shall be available only to meet 
unanticipated needs and shall not be used to create any new program or 
to fund any project or activity for which no funds are provided in this 
division: Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> That the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified at least 15 days in advance of 
any transfer.

    ``Sec. 20623. Section 214 of the Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2006 shall be applied to funds appropriated 
by this division by substituting `2006' and `2007' for `2005' and 
`2006', respectively, each place they appear.
    ``Sec. 20624.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
sections 222 and 223 of the Department of Health and Human Services 
Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division.
    ``Sec. 20625. (a) Notwithstanding section 101 or any other provision 
of this division, the level for `Department of Education, Education for 
the Disadvantaged' shall be $14,725,593,000.
    ``(b) Of the amount provided in subsection (a)--
            ``(1) $7,172,994,000 shall become available on July 1, 2007, 
        and shall remain available through September 30, 2008, of which: 
        (A) $5,451,387,000 shall be for basic grants under section 1124 
        of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA); 
        (B) $125,000,000 shall be for school improvement grants 
        authorized under section 1003(g) of the ESEA; and (C) not to 
        exceed $2,352,000 shall be available for section 1608 of the 
        ESEA; and
            ``(2) $7,383,301,000 shall become available on October 1, 
        2007, and shall remain available through September 30, 2008, for 
        academic year 2007-2008, of which: (A) $1,353,584,000 shall be 
        for basic grants under section 1124 of the ESEA; (B) 
        $2,332,343,000 shall be for targeted grants under section 1125 
        of the ESEA; and (C) $2,332,343,000 shall be for education 
        finance incentive grants under section 1125A of the ESEA.

    ``(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the last 
proviso under the heading `Department of Education, Education for the 
Disadvantaged' in the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2006 
may be applied to activities authorized under part F of title I of the 
ESEA without regard to any specific designation therein.
    ``Sec. 20626.  For purposes of this division, the proviso under the 
heading `Department of Education, Impact Aid' shall be applied by 
substituting `2006-2007' for `2005-2006'.
    ``Sec. 20627.  Of the amount provided by section 101 for `Department 
of Education, School Improvement Programs', $33,907,000

[[Page 121 STAT. 35]]

shall be for programs authorized under part B of title VII of the ESEA 
and $33,907,000 shall be for programs authorized under part C of title 
VII of the ESEA. Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the second proviso under such heading in the Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division.
    ``Sec. 20628.  Notwithstanding section 101 or any other provision of 
this division: (1) the level for `Department of Education, Innovation 
and Improvement' shall be $837,686,000, of which not to exceed $200,000 
shall be for the teacher incentive fund authorized in subpart 1 of part 
D of title V of the ESEA; and (2) the first proviso under such heading 
in the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2006 may be applied 
to advanced credentialing activities authorized under subpart 5 of part 
A of title II of the ESEA without regard to any specific designation 
therein.
    ``Sec. 20629.  Notwithstanding section 101 or any other provision of 
this division: (1) the level for `Department of Education, Safe Schools 
and Citizenship Education' shall be $729,518,000, of which: (A) not less 
than $72,674,000 shall be used to carry out subpart 10 of part D of 
title V of the ESEA; and (B) $48,814,000 shall be used for mentoring 
programs authorized under section 4130 of the ESEA; and (2) the last 
proviso under such heading in the Department of Education Appropriations 
Act, 2006 may be applied to civic education activities authorized under 
subpart 3 of part C of title II of the ESEA without regard to any 
specific designation therein.
    ``Sec. 20630. (a)(1) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Education, Special Education' shall be $11,802,867,000.
    ``(2) Of the amount made available in paragraph (1), $6,175,912,000 
shall become available on July 1, 2007, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2008, of which $5,358,761,000 shall be for State 
grants authorized under section 611 (20 U.S.C. 1411) of part B of the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).
    ``(b) None of the funds appropriated by this division may be used 
for State personnel development authorized in subpart 1 of part D of the 
IDEA (20 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.).
    ``(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the 
first and second provisos under the heading `Department of Education, 
Special Education' in the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 
2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division. For 
purposes of this division, the last proviso under such heading shall be 
applied by substituting `2006' for `2005'.
    ``Sec. 20631.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the second appropriation under the heading `Department of Education, 
Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research' in the Department of 
Education Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated 
by this division.
    ``Sec. 20632.  The provision pertaining to funding for construction 
under `Department of Education, Special Institutions for Persons With 
Disabilities, National Technical Institute for the Deaf' shall not apply 
to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20633. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Education, Student Financial Assistance' shall be 
$15,542,456,000.

[[Page 121 STAT. 36]]

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Grants. 20 USC 1070a note.>> The maximum Pell Grant 
for which a student shall be eligible during award year 2007-2008 shall 
be $4,310.

    ``Sec. 20634. (a) In addition to the amounts provided under section 
101 of this division, amounts obligated in fiscal year 2006 from funding 
provided in section 458(a)(1) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1087h(a)(1)) (as reduced by the amount of account maintenance 
fees obligated to guaranty agencies for fiscal year 2006 pursuant to 
section 458(a)(1)(B) of that Act) shall be deemed to have been provided 
in an applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2006.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Department of 
Education, Student Aid Administration' shall be $718,800,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    ``Sec. 20635.  Of the amount provided by section 101 for `Department 
of Education, Higher Education', $11,785,000 shall be for carrying out 
section 317 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059d).
    ``Sec. 20636.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Education, Departmental Management, Program 
Administration' shall be $416,250,000, of which $2,100,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for building alterations and related 
expenses for the move of Department staff to the Mary E. Switzer 
building in Washington, D.C.
    ``Sec. 20637.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
section 305 of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2006 
(title III of Public Law 109-149; 119 Stat. 2870) shall not apply to 
this division.
    ``Sec. 20638.  <<NOTE: 42 USC 12651i.>> Notwithstanding section 101, 
the level for `Corporation for National and Community Service, Domestic 
Volunteer Service Programs, Operating Expenses' shall be $316,550,000, 
of which $3,500,000 shall be for establishment in the Treasury of a 
VISTA Advance Payments Revolving Fund (in this section referred to as 
the `Fund') for the Corporation for National and Community Service 
which, in addition to reimbursements collected from eligible public 
agencies and private nonprofit organizations pursuant to cost-share 
agreements, shall be available until expended to make advance payments 
in furtherance of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 
(42 U.S.C. 4951-4995): Provided, That up to 10 percent of funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act may be transferred to the 
Fund if the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service determines that the amounts in the Fund are not 
sufficient to cover expenses of the Fund: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Budget.>> That the Corporation for National and 
Community Service shall provide detailed information on the activities 
and financial status of the Fund during the preceding fiscal year in the 
annual congressional budget justifications to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    ``Sec. 20639. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
`Corporation for National and Community Service, National and Community 
Service Programs, Operating Expenses' shall be $494,007,000, of which: 
(1) $117,720,000 shall be transferred to the National Service Trust; and 
(2) $31,131,000 shall be for activities authorized under subtitle H of 
title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the 
eleventh and thirteenth provisos under the heading `Corporation

[[Page 121 STAT. 37]]

for National and Community Service, National and Community Service 
Programs, Operating Expenses' in the Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2006 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20640.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Corporation for National and Community Service, Salaries and Expenses' 
shall be $68,627,000.
    ``Sec. 20641.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Corporation for National and Community Service, Office of Inspector 
General' shall be $4,940,000.
    ``Sec. 20642.  In addition to amounts provided by section 101 of 
this division, funds appropriated to the Medicare Payment Advisory 
Commission under section 106(b)(1)(B) of the Medicare Improvements and 
Extension Act of 2006 (division B of Public Law 109-432) shall be used 
to carry out section 1805 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395b-
6).
    ``Sec. 20643.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Railroad 
Retirement Board, Dual Benefits Payments Account' shall be $88,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20644.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Railroad 
Retirement Board, Limitation on Administration' shall be $103,018,000.
    ``Sec. 20645. (a) Administrative Expenses.--Notwithstanding section 
101, the level for the first paragraph under the heading `Social 
Security Administration, Limitation on Administrative Expenses' shall be 
$9,136,606,000.
    ``(b) Conforming Change.--Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
the first paragraph under the heading `Social Security Administration, 
Supplemental Security Income Program' shall be $29,058,000,000, of which 
$2,937,000,000 shall be for administrative expenses.

                     ``CHAPTER 7--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

    ``Sec. 20701. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Senate, Contingent Expenses of the Senate, Senators' Official Personnel 
and Office Expense Account' shall be $361,456,000.
    ``(b)(1) <<NOTE: 2 USC 1823.>> The Architect of the Capitol may 
acquire (through purchase, lease, transfer from another Federal entity, 
or otherwise) real property, for the use of the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate to support the operations of the Senate--
            ``(A) subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate; and
            ``(B) subject to the availability of appropriations and upon 
        approval of an obligation plan by the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate.

    ``(2) Subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate may transfer funds for the 
acquisition or maintenance of any property under paragraph (1) from the 
account under the heading `Senate, Contingent Expenses of the Senate, 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate' to the account under the 
heading `Architect of the Capitol, Senate Office Buildings'.
    ``(3) This subsection shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2007 
and each fiscal year thereafter.

[[Page 121 STAT. 38]]

    ``(c)(1) Section 10 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2005 (Public Law 108-447; 118 Stat. 3170) <<NOTE: 2 USC 61f-12.>> is 
amended--
            ``(A) by inserting `(a) In General.--' before `The Office'; 
        and
            ``(B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ```(b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 
and each fiscal year thereafter.'''.
    ``(2) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61f-12 note.>> The amendments 
made by this subsection shall take effect as though included in the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005.

    ``Sec. 20702. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `House 
of Representatives, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $1,129,454,000, to 
be allocated in accordance with an allocation plan submitted by the 
Chief Administrative Officer and approved by the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    ``(b) Sections 103 and 107 of H.R. 5521, One Hundred Ninth Congress, 
as passed by the House of Representatives on June 7, 2006, <<NOTE: 2 USC 
75a, 75a-1, 130l.>> are enacted into law.

    ``Sec. 20703. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office' shall be $8,490,000, 
and the provisos under the heading `Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office' in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2006 
(Public Law 109-55; 119 Stat. 571) shall not apply.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Capitol Police, 
General Expenses' shall be $38,500,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the cost of basic training for the Capitol 
Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 
2007 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland Security from funds 
available to the Department of Homeland Security.
    ``(c)(1) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Architect of 
the Capitol, Capitol Power Plant' shall be $73,098,000.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Architect of the 
Capitol, Library Buildings and Grounds' shall be $27,375,000.
    ``(3) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Architect of the 
Capitol, Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds' shall be $11,753,000, of 
which $2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2011.
    ``(4) Notwithstanding section 101, amounts made available under such 
section for projects and activities described under the heading 
`Architect of the Capitol, Capitol Visitor Center' in the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2006 may be transferred among the accounts 
and purposes specified in such heading, upon the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    ``(d)(1) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Library of 
Congress, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $385,000,000, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2007 and shall remain available until 
expended under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150), and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2007 and 
shall remain available until expended for the development and 
maintenance of an international legal information database (and related 
activities).

[[Page 121 STAT. 39]]

    ``(2) The eighth, tenth, and eleventh provisos under the heading 
`Library of Congress, Salaries and Expenses' in the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-55; 119 Stat. 580) shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``(3) Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
`Library of Congress, Salaries and Expenses', the following amounts are 
rescinded:
            ``(A) Of the unobligated balances available for the National 
        Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program, 
        $47,000,000.
            ``(B) Of the unobligated balances available for furniture 
        and furnishings, $695,394.
            ``(C) Of the unobligated balances available for the 
        acquisition and partial support for implementation of an 
        Integrated Library System, $1,853,611.

    ``(4) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Library of 
Congress, Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, Salaries and 
Expenses' shall be $53,505,000, of which $16,231,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    ``(5) The proviso under the heading `Books for the Blind and 
Physically Handicapped, Salaries and Expenses' in the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-55; 119 Stat. 582) shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``(6) <<NOTE: 2 USC 132b note, 1151 and note.>> Section 3402 of the 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on 
Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 109-13; 119 Stat. 272) is 
repealed, and each provision of law amended by such section is restored 
as if such section had not been enacted into law.

    ``(e) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Government 
Printing Office, Government Printing Office Revolving Fund' shall be 
$1,000,000.
    ``(f) Notwithstanding section 101, the amount applicable under the 
first proviso under the heading `Government Accountability Office, 
Salaries and Expenses' in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2006 (Public Law 109-55; 119 Stat. 586) shall be $5,167,900, and the 
amount applicable under the second proviso under such heading shall be 
$2,763,000.

       ``CHAPTER 8--MILITARY QUALITY OF LIFE AND VETERANS AFFAIRS

    ``Sec. 20801.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts of the Department of Defense for projects 
authorized in division B of Public Law 109-364 shall be as follows: 
`Military Construction, Army', $2,013,000,000; `Military Construction, 
Navy and Marine Corps', $1,129,000,000; `Military Construction, Air 
Force', $1,083,000,000; `Military Construction, Defense-Wide', 
$1,127,000,000; `Military Construction, Army National Guard', 
$473,000,000; `Military Construction, Air National Guard', $126,000,000; 
`Military Construction, Army Reserve', $166,000,000; `Military 
Construction, Navy Reserve', $43,000,000; and `Military Construction, 
Air Force Reserve', $45,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20802.  Of the total amount specified in section 20801, the 
amount available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer 
services, and host nation support, as authorized by law, under the 
headings `Military Construction, Army', `Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps', `Military Construction, Air

[[Page 121 STAT. 40]]

Force', and `Military Construction, Defense-Wide' shall not exceed 
$541,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20803.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following provisions included in the Military Quality of Life, 
Military Construction, and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2006 
(Public Law 109-114) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division: the first two provisos under the heading `Military 
Construction, Army'; the first proviso under the heading `Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'; the first proviso under the 
heading `Military Construction, Air Force'; and the second proviso under 
the heading `Military Construction, Defense-Wide'.
    ``Sec. 20804.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for the Department of Defense shall be as 
follows: `Family Housing Construction, Army', $579,000,000; `Family 
Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army', $671,000,000; `Family Housing 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps', $305,000,000; `Family Housing 
Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps', $505,000,000; `Family 
Housing Construction, Air Force', $1,168,000,000; `Family Housing 
Operation and Maintenance, Air Force', $750,000,000; `Family Housing 
Construction, Defense-Wide', $9,000,000; `Family Housing Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide', $49,000,000; `Chemical Demilitarization 
Construction, Defense-Wide', $131,000,000; and `Department of Defense 
Base Closure Account 2005', $2,489,421,000.
    ``Sec. 20805.  Of the funds made available under the following 
headings in Public Law 108-132, the following amounts are rescinded: 
`Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps', $19,500,000; and 
`Military Construction, Defense-Wide', $9,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20806.  Of the funds made available under the following 
headings in Public Law 108-324, the following amounts are rescinded: 
`Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps', $8,000,000; `Military 
Construction, Air Force', $2,694,000; `Military Construction, Defense-
Wide', $43,000,000; and `Family Housing Construction, Air Force', 
$18,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20807.  Of the funds made available under the following 
headings in Public Law 109-114, the following amounts are rescinded: 
`Military Construction, Army', $43,348,000; `Military Construction, 
Defense-Wide', $58,229,000; and `Military Construction, Army National 
Guard', $2,129,000.
    ``Sec. 20808.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be as 
follows: `Veterans Health Administration, Medical Services', 
$25,423,250,000; `Veterans Health Administration, Medical 
Administration', $3,156,850,000; `Veterans Health Administration, 
Medical Facilities', $3,558,150,000; `Departmental Administration, 
General Operating Expenses', $1,472,164,000, provided that the Veterans 
Benefits Administration shall be funded at not less than $1,161,659,000; 
`Departmental Administration, Construction, Major Projects', 
$399,000,000, of which $2,000,000 shall be to make reimbursements as 
provided in section 13 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 
612) for claims paid for contracts disputes; and `Departmental 
Administration, National Cemetery Administration', $159,983,000.
    ``Sec. 20809.  The first proviso under the heading `Veterans 
Benefits Administration, Compensation and Pensions' in the Military 
Quality of Life, Military Construction, and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-114) shall be applied

[[Page 121 STAT. 41]]

to funds appropriated by this division by substituting `$28,112,000' for 
`$23,491,000'.
    ``Sec. 20810.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following provisions included in the Military Quality of Life, 
Military Construction, and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2006 
(Public Law 109-114) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division: the first, second, and last provisos, and the set-aside of 
$2,200,000,000, under the heading `Veterans Health Administration, 
Medical Services'; the set-aside of $15,000,000 under the heading 
`Veterans Health Administration, Medical and Prosthetic Research'; the 
set-aside of $532,010,000 under the heading `Departmental 
Administration, Construction, Major Projects'; and the set-aside of 
$155,000,000 under the heading `Departmental Administration, 
Construction, Minor Projects'.
    ``Sec. 20811.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following sections included in the Military Quality of Life, 
Military Construction, and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2006 
(Public Law 109-114) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this 
division: section 217, section 224, section 228, section 229, and 
section 230.
    ``Sec. 20812.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts of the American Battle Monuments Commission shall 
be as follows: `Salaries and Expenses', $37,000,000; and `Foreign 
Currency Fluctuations Account', $5,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20813.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `United 
States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, Salaries and Expenses' 
shall be $20,100,000.
    ``Sec. 20814.  Section 2101(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-
364; 120 Stat. 2445) is amended by striking the first table of 
authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects for inside 
the United States and by adding at the end of the remaining table the 
last two items in the corresponding table on pages 366 and 367 of House 
Report 109-702, which is the conference report resolving the disagreeing 
votes of the House of Representatives and the Senate on the amendment of 
the Senate to H.R. 5122 of the 109th Congress.

  ``CHAPTER 9--SCIENCE, STATE, JUSTICE, COMMERCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES

    ``Sec. 20901.  (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each 
of the following accounts of the Department of Justice shall be as 
follows: `General Administration, Salaries and Expenses', $97,053,000; 
`General Administration, Justice Information Sharing Technology', 
$123,510,000; `General Administration, Narrowband Communications/
Integrated Wireless Network', $89,188,000; `General Administration, 
Detention Trustee', $1,225,788,000; `General Administration, Office of 
Inspector General', $70,118,000; `United States Parole Commission, 
Salaries and Expenses', $11,424,000; `Legal Activities, Salaries and 
Expenses, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission', $1,551,000; `United 
States Marshals Service, Salaries and Expenses', $807,967,000; `United 
States Marshals Service, Construction', $6,846,000; `Salaries and 
Expenses, Community Relations Service', $10,178,000; `Assets Forfeiture 
Fund', $21,211,000; `Interagency Law Enforcement, Interagency Crime and 
Drug

[[Page 121 STAT. 42]]

Enforcement', $494,793,000; `Drug Enforcement Administration, Salaries 
and Expenses', $1,737,412,000; `Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives, Salaries and Expenses', $979,244,000; `Federal Prison 
System, Salaries and Expenses', $4,974,261,000; `Office of Justice 
Programs, Justice Assistance', $237,689,000; `Office of Justice 
Programs, Community Oriented Policing Services', $541,697,000; and 
`Office on Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women Prevention and 
Prosecution Programs', $382,534,000.
    ``(b) In addition to the amount otherwise appropriated by this 
division for `Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, State 
and Local Law Enforcement Assistance' for the Edward Byrne Memorial 
Justice Assistance Grant program, there is appropriated $108,693,000 for 
such purpose.
    ``Sec. 20902.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses, 
Antitrust Division' shall be $147,002,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $129,000,000 of offsetting collections derived from fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino 
Anti-trust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the 
year of collection, shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
2007, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2007 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $18,002,000.
    ``Sec. 20903.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Legal Activities, United States Trustee System 
Fund', as authorized, shall be $222,121,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System Fund: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to 
the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $222,121,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to 28 
U.S.C. 589a(b) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2007, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2007 appropriation from the Fund estimated 
at $0.
    ``Sec. 20904.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
Expenses' shall be $5,962,219,000.
    ``Sec. 20905.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Construction' 
shall be $51,392,000.
    ``Sec. 20906.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, National Security Division', as authorized by 
section 509A of title 28, United States Code, shall be $66,741,000: 
Provided, That upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
emergent circumstances require additional funding for activities of the 
National Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to the National Security Division from available appropriations 
for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice,

[[Page 121 STAT. 43]]

as may be necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided further, 
That any transfer pursuant to the previous proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 605 of Public Law 109-108 and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    ``Sec. 20907.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, United States Attorneys, Salaries and Expenses' 
shall be $1,645,613,000.
    ``Sec. 20908.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Administrative Review and Appeals' shall be 
$228,066,000.
    ``Sec. 20909.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, General Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses' 
shall be $672,609,000.
    ``Sec. 20910.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Justice, Federal Prison System, Buildings and Facilities' 
shall be $432,290,000.
    ``Sec. 20911.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Bureau of 
the Census, Periodic Censuses and Programs' shall be $511,603,000 for 
necessary expenses related to the 2010 decennial census and $182,489,000 
for expenses to collect and publish statistics for other periodic 
censuses and programs provided for by law.
    ``Sec. 20912.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Commerce, Science and Technology, Technology 
Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $2,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20913.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
following accounts of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
shall be as follows: `Scientific and Technical Research and Services', 
$432,762,000; and `Construction of Research Facilities', $58,651,000.
    ``Sec. 20914.  Notwithstanding section 101 under `National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, Operations, Research, and Facilities', 
$79,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled `Promote 
and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American 
Fisheries'.
    ``Sec. 20915.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
following accounts of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
shall be as follows: `Science, Aeronautics and Exploration', 
$10,075,000,000, of which $5,251,200,000 shall be for science, 
$890,400,000 shall be for aeronautics research, $3,401,600,000 shall be 
for exploration systems, and $531,800,000 shall be for cross-agency 
support programs; `Exploration Capabilities', $6,140,000,000; and 
`Office of Inspector General', $32,000,000.
    ``Sec. 20916.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `National 
Science Foundation, Research and Related Activities' shall be 
$4,665,950,000, of which not to exceed $485,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for Polar research and operations support, and 
for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational and science 
support and logistical and other related activities for the United 
States Antarctic Program: Provided, That from funds provided under this 
section, such sums as are necessary shall be available for the 
procurement of polar icebreaking services: Provided further, That the 
National Science Foundation shall reimburse the Coast Guard according to 
the existing memorandum of agreement.

[[Page 121 STAT. 44]]

    ``Sec. 20917.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Antitrust 
Modernization Commission, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $462,000.
    ``Sec. 20918.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Legal 
Services Corporation, Payment to the Legal Services Corporation' shall 
be $348,578,000.
    ``Sec. 20919.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Justice, General Administration, Working Capital 
Fund', $2,500,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20920.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Justice, General Administration, 
Telecommunications Carrier Compliance Fund', $39,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20921.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Justice, Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund', 
$8,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20922.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Justice, Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture 
Fund', $170,000,000 shall be rescinded not later than September 30, 
2007.
    ``Sec. 20923.  Of the unobligated balances available from prior year 
appropriations under any `Department of Justice, Office of Justice 
Programs' account, $109,000,000 shall be rescinded, of which no more 
than $31,000,000 shall be rescinded from `Department of Justice, Office 
of Justice Programs, Community Oriented Policing Services', not later 
than September 30, 2007: Provided, That funds made available for 
`Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Community Oriented 
Policing Services' program management and administration shall not be 
reduced due to such rescission.
    ``Sec. 20924.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration', $25,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20925.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, Industrial Technology Services', $7,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20926.  The third proviso under the heading `Department of 
Justice, Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses, United States 
Attorneys', of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108) shall not apply 
to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20927.  The first through third provisos under the heading 
`Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Construction' 
of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108) shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20928.  The tenth through twelfth provisos under the heading 
`Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives, Salaries and Expenses' of the Science, State, Justice, 
Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-
108) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20929.  The matter pertaining to the National District 
Attorneys Association in paragraph (12) under the heading `Department of 
Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Community Oriented Policing 
Services' of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and

[[Page 121 STAT. 45]]

Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108) shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20930.Sections 207, 208, and 209 of the Science, State, 
Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public 
Law 109-108) shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20931.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the following provisions of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108), relating 
to the Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, shall not apply to funds appropriated by this division: 
the twelfth proviso under the heading `Operations, Research and 
Facilities'; the fifth proviso under the heading `Procurement, 
Acquisition and Construction'; and the set-aside of $19,000,000 under 
the second proviso under the heading `Fisheries Finance Program 
Account'.
    ``Sec. 20932.  In the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108), under the 
heading `National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Administrative 
Provisions', the paragraph beginning `Funding made available under' and 
all that follows through `conference report for this Act.' shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20933.Title VIII of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005 
(Public Law 108-447, division B) <<NOTE: 35 USC 41 note.>> is amended by 
striking `fiscal years 2005 and 2006' each place it appears and 
inserting `fiscal years 2005, 2006, and 2007'.

    ``Sec. 20934.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Commerce, United States Patent and Trademark Office, 
Salaries and Expenses' shall be $1,771,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections assessed and 
collected pursuant to section 1113 of title 15 of the United States 
Code, and sections 41 and 376 of title 35 of the United States Code, are 
received during fiscal year 2007, so as to result in a fiscal year 2007 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0: Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2007, should the total amount of offsetting fee 
collections be less than $1,771,000,000, this amount shall be reduced 
accordingly.
    ``Sec. 20935.  Funds appropriated by section 101 of this division 
for International Space Station Cargo Crew Services/International 
Partner Purchases and International Space Station/Multi-User System 
Support within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration may be 
obligated in the account and budget structure set forth in the pertinent 
Act specified in section 101(a)(8).
    ``Sec. 20936.  The matter pertaining to paragraph (1)(B) under the 
heading `Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, State and 
Local Law Enforcement Assistance' of the Science, State, Justice, 
Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 shall not apply 
to funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20937.The Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108), under the 
heading `National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Science, 
Aeronautics and Exploration' <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2316.>> is amended by 
striking `, of which amounts' and all that follows through `as amended 
by Public Law 106-377'.

[[Page 121 STAT. 46]]

    ``Sec. 20938. The Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108), under the 
heading `National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Exploration 
Capabilities' <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2316.>> is amended by striking `, of 
which amounts' and all that follows through `as amended by Public Law 
106-377'.

    ``Sec. 20939.  Notwithstanding section 101, or any other provision 
of law, no funds shall be used to implement any Reduction in Force or 
other involuntary separations (except for cause) by the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration prior to September 30, 2007.
    ``Sec. 20940.  Any terms, conditions, uses, or authorities put into 
effect, available, or exercised pursuant to the reprogramming 
notification dated August 10, 2006, relating to the Department of 
Justice with respect to the Office of Justice Programs, the Office of 
Community Oriented Policing Services, or the Office on Violence Against 
Women are hereby made applicable, available, and effective with respect 
to Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations for those Offices.
    ``Sec. 20941.  Section 824(g) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4064(g)) is amended--
            ``(1) in paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking `To facilitate' and all that follows through 
                `the Secretary' and inserting `The Secretary'; and
                    ``(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `if' and 
                inserting `to facilitate the assignment of persons to 
                Iraq and Afghanistan or to posts vacated by members of 
                the Service assigned to Iraq and Afghanistan, if';
            ``(2) in paragraph (2), by striking `subparagraphs (A) or 
        (B) of such paragraph' and inserting `such subparagraph'; and
            ``(3) in paragraph (3), by striking `paragraph (1)' and 
        inserting `paragraph (1)(B)'.

    ``Sec. 20942.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts and activities shall be $0: `Department of State, 
Administration of Foreign Affairs, Centralized Information Technology 
Modernization Program'; and the grant to the Center for Middle Eastern-
Western Dialogue Trust Fund made available in the Science, State, 
Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public 
Law 109-108) under the heading `Department of State, Other, Center for 
Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund'.
    ``Sec. 20943.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts shall be as follows: `Department of State, 
Administration of Foreign Affairs, Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Programs', $445,275,000; `Department of State, Administration of Foreign 
Affairs, Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service', 
$4,940,000; `Department of State, Administration of Foreign Affairs, 
Payment to the American Institute in Taiwan', $15,826,000; `Department 
of State, International Organizations, Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities', $1,135,275,000; `Related Agency, Broadcasting 
Board of Governors, International Broadcasting Operations', 
$636,387,000; `Related Agency, Broadcasting Board of Governors, 
Broadcasting Capital Improvements', $7,624,000; and `Related Agencies, 
Commission on International Religious Freedom, Salaries and Expenses', 
$3,000,000.

[[Page 121 STAT. 47]]

    ``Sec. 20944.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
the fourth proviso under the heading `Department of State, 
Administration of Foreign Affairs, Diplomatic and Consular Programs' in 
the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Appropriations Act, 
2006 (Public Law 109-108) and section 406 of such Act shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by this division.
    ``Sec. 20945.  The appropriation to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission pursuant to this division shall be deemed a regular 
appropriation for purposes of section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(15 U.S.C. 77f(b)) and sections 13(e), 14(g), and 31(k) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g), and 78ee(k)).
    ``Sec. 20946.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Antideficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act (Public Law 108-494; 118 Stat. 3998) is amended 
by striking `December 31, 2006,' each place it appears and inserting 
`December 31, 2007,'.
    ``Sec. 20947.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Small 
Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $326,733,000, 
and section 613 of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-108; 119 Stat. 2336) 
shall not apply to such funds.
    ``Sec. 20948.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Small 
Business Administration, Disaster Loans Program Account' shall be 
$113,850,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be for 
administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program authorized 
by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, of which $112,365,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with `Small Business Administration, Salaries 
and Expenses', and of which $1,485,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General of the Small Business Administration for audits and reviews of 
disaster loans and the disaster loan program and shall be transferred to 
and merged with appropriations for the Office of Inspector General.
    ``Sec. 20949.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Small Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses', 
$6,100,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20950.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Small Business Administration, Business Loans Program Account', 
$5,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 20951.  Of the unobligated balances available under the 
heading `Small Business Administration, Disaster Loans Program Account', 
$2,300,000 is rescinded.

 ``CHAPTER 10--TRANSPORTATION, TREASURY, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, 
    THE JUDICIARY, THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    ``Sec. 21001.  Of the amounts provided by section 101 for 
`Department of Transportation, Office of the Secretary, Transportation, 
Planning, Research, and Development', for activities of the Department 
of Transportation, up to $9,900,000 may be made available for the 
purpose of agency facility improvements and associated administrative 
costs as determined necessary by the Secretary.
    ``Sec. 21002.  <<NOTE: Applicability. 49 USC 44302 note.>> (a) 
Section 44302(f)(1) of title 49, United States Code, shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106 of this division for 
`August 31, 2006, and may extend through December 31, 2006'.

[[Page 121 STAT. 48]]

    ``(b) <<NOTE: 49 USC 44303 note.>> Section 44303(b) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be applied by substituting the date specified 
in section 106 of this division for `December 31, 2006'.

    ``Sec. 21003. Of the funds made available under section 101(a)(2) of 
Public Law 107-42, $50,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 21004.  Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are provided by 
this division for activities or reimbursements described in section 185 
of Public Law 109-115.
    ``Sec. 21005.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal 
Aviation Administration, Operations' shall be $8,330,750,000, of which 
$5,627,900,000 shall be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
of which no less than $6,704,223,000 shall be for air traffic 
organization activities; no less than $997,718,000 shall be for aviation 
regulation and certification activities; not to exceed $11,641,000 shall 
be available for commercial space transportation activities; not to 
exceed $76,175,000 shall be available for financial services activities; 
not to exceed $85,313,000 shall be available for human resources program 
activities; not to exceed $275,156,000 shall be available for region and 
center operations and regional coordination activities; not to exceed 
$144,617,000 shall be available for staff offices; and not to exceed 
$35,907,000 shall be available for information services.
    ``Sec. 21006.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal 
Aviation Administration, Research, Engineering, and Development (Airport 
and Airway Trust Fund)' shall be $130,000,000.
    ``Sec. 21007.  Of the amounts provided by section 101 for limitation 
on obligations under `Federal Aviation Administration, Grants-in-Aid for 
Airports (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) (Limitation on 
Obligations) (Airport and Airway Trust Fund)', not to exceed $74,971,000 
shall be obligated for administrative expenses; up to $17,870,000 shall 
be available for airport technology research, to remain available until 
expended; not less than $10,000,000 shall be for airport cooperative 
research; and $10,000,000 shall be available and transferred to `Office 
of the Secretary, Salaries and Expenses' to administer the small 
community air service development program to remain available until 
expended.
    ``Sec. 21008.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
liquidation of contract authorization under `Federal Aviation 
Administration, Grants-in-Aid for Airports (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund)' shall be $4,399,000,000.
    ``Sec. 21009.  Of the amounts authorized for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2007, and prior years under sections 48103 and 48112 of 
title 49, United States Code, $621,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 21010.  <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> Notwithstanding section 
101, the level for `Federal Highway Administration, Federal-Aid Highways 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)' shall be 
$39,086,464,683.

    ``Sec. 21011.  Notwithstanding section 101, sections 110, 112, and 
113 of division A of Public Law 109-115 shall not apply to fiscal year 
2007.
    ``Sec. 21012.  Funds appropriated under this division pursuant to 
section 1069(y) of Public Law 102-240 shall be distributed in accordance 
with the formula set forth in section 1116(a) of Public Law 109-59.
    ``Sec. 21013.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
limitation on obligations and transfer of contract authority for 
`National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Operations and

[[Page 121 STAT. 49]]

Research (Highway Trust Fund) (Including Transfer of Funds)' shall be 
$121,232,430: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
whenever an allocation is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated 
for expenditure on the Federal lands highway program, and whenever an 
apportionment is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated for the 
surface transportation program, the congestion mitigation and air 
quality improvement program, the National Highway System, the Interstate 
maintenance program, the bridge program, the Appalachian development 
highway system, and the equity bonus program, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall deduct from all sums so authorized such sums as may 
be necessary to fund this section: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this section shall be transferred by the Secretary of 
Transportation to and administered by the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration: Provided further, That the Federal share payable 
on account of any program, project, or activity carried out with funds 
made available under this section shall be 100 percent: Provided 
further, That the sum deducted in accordance with this section shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That all funds made 
available under this section shall be subject to any limitation on 
obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction 
programs set forth in this division or any other Act: Provided further, 
That the obligation limitation made available for the programs, 
projects, and activities for which funds are made available under this 
section shall remain available until used and shall be in addition to 
the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
years: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, prior to making any distribution of obligation limitation for the 
Federal-aid highway program under section 1102 of Public Law 109-59 for 
fiscal year 2007, the Secretary of Transportation shall not distribute 
from such limitation amounts provided under this section: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, in allocating 
funds for the equity bonus program under section 105 of title 23, United 
States Code, for fiscal year 2007, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
make the required calculations under that section as if this section had 
not been enacted.
    ``Sec. 21014.  Of the unobligated balances of funds apportioned to 
each State under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, 
$3,471,582,000 is rescinded: Provided, That such rescission shall not 
apply to the funds distributed in accordance with sections 130(f) and 
104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code; sections 133(d)(1) and 163 of 
such title, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
Public Law 109-59; and the first sentence of section 133(d)(3)(A) of 
such title.
    ``Sec. 21015.  Notwithstanding section 101 and section 111, the 
level for each of the following accounts under the heading `Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Administration' shall be as follows: `Motor Carrier 
Safety Operations and Programs (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)', $223,000,000; and 
`Motor Carrier Safety Grants (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)', $294,000,000.
    ``Sec. 21016.  Notwithstanding section 101 and section 111, the 
level for each of the following accounts under the heading

[[Page 121 STAT. 50]]

`National Highway Traffic Safety Administration' shall be as follows: 
`Operations and Research (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)', $107,750,000; 
`National Driver Register (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)', $4,000,000; and 
`Highway Traffic Safety Grants (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) 
(Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust Fund)', $587,750,000.
    ``Sec. 21017.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal 
Railroad Administration, Safety and Operations' shall be $149,570,000.
    ``Sec. 21018.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal 
Railroad Administration, Railroad Research and Development' shall be 
$34,524,000.
    ``Sec. 21019.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal 
Railroad Administration, Efficiency Incentive Grants to the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation' shall be $31,300,000 and section 135 of 
division A of Public Law 109-115 shall not apply to fiscal year 2007.
    ``Sec. 21020.  Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are 
appropriated under this division for `Federal Railroad Administration, 
Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation'.
    ``Sec. 21021.  Notwithstanding section 101 and section 111, the 
level for each of the following accounts under the heading `Federal 
Transit Administration' shall be as follows: `Administrative Expenses', 
$85,000,000; `Research and University Research Centers', $61,000,000; 
and `Capital Investment Grants', $1,566,000,000.
    ``Sec. 21022.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
liquidation of contract authorizations for `Federal Transit 
Administration, Formula and Bus Grants (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization)' available for payment of obligations incurred in 
carrying out the provisions of sections 5305, 5307, 5308, 5309, 5310, 
5311, 5316, 5317, 5320, 5335, 5339, and 5340 of title 49, United States 
Code, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178 shall be $4,660,000,000, to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until expended.
    ``Sec. 21023.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
limitation on obligations for `Federal Transit Administration, Formula 
and Bus Grants (Liquidation of Contract Authorization) (Limitation on 
Obligations) (Including Transfer of Funds)' shall be $7,262,775,000: 
Provided, That no funds made available to modernize fixed guideway 
systems shall be transferred to `Capital Investment Grants'.
    ``Sec. 21024.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited under this division and made available to carry 
out the new fixed guideway program of the Federal Transit Administration 
shall be allocated at the discretion of the Administrator of the Federal 
Transit Administration for projects authorized under subsections (a) 
through (c) of section 3043 of Public Law 109-59 and for activities 
authorized under section 5309 of title 49, United States Code.
    ``Sec. 21025.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Maritime 
Administration, Operations and Training' shall be $111,127,000.
    ``Sec. 21026.  Of the unobligated balances under the heading 
`Maritime Administration, National Defense Tank Vessel Construction 
Program', $74,400,000 is rescinded.

[[Page 121 STAT. 51]]

    ``Sec. 21027.  Of the unobligated balances under the heading 
`Maritime Administration, Ship Construction', $2,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 21028.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts under the heading `Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration' shall be as follows: `Administrative 
Expenses', $18,000,000; `Hazardous Materials Safety', $26,663,000; and 
`Pipeline Safety (Pipeline Safety Fund) (Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund)', $74,832,000, of which $14,850,000 shall be derived from the Oil 
Spill Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 
30, 2009, of which $59,982,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety 
Fund, of which $24,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2009.
    ``Sec. 21029.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Research 
and Innovative Technology Administration, Research and Development' 
shall be $7,716,260, of which $2,000,000 shall be for the air 
transportation statistics program.
    ``Sec. 21030.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General, Salaries and 
Expenses' shall be $63,643,000.
    ``Sec. 21031.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the 
`National Transportation Safety Board, Salaries and Expenses' shall be 
$78,854,000.
    ``Sec. 21032.  Of the available unobligated balances made available 
to the `National Transportation Safety Board' under Public Law 106-246, 
$1,000,000 is rescinded.
    ``Sec. 21033.Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, Public and Indian Housing, Tenant-
Based Rental Assistance' shall be $15,920,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $11,727,000,000 shall be available on October 
1, 2006, and notwithstanding section 109, $4,193,000,000 shall be 
available on October 1, 2007: Provided, That paragraph (1) under such 
heading in Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2440) shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this division: Provided further, That of the amounts 
available for such heading, $14,436,200,000 shall be for renewals of 
expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
(including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of law 
authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (`the Act' 
herein)): Provided further,  <<NOTE: Vouchers.>> That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, from amounts provided under the second 
proviso under this section the Secretary shall, for the calendar year 
2007 funding cycle, provide renewal funding for each public housing 
agency based on voucher management system (VMS) leasing and cost data 
for the most recently completed period of 12 consecutive months for 
which the Secretary determines the data is verifiable and complete, 
prior to prorations, and by applying the 2007 Annual Adjustment Factor 
as established by the Secretary, and by making any necessary adjustments 
for the costs associated with the first-time renewal of tenant 
protection or HOPE VI vouchers or vouchers that were not in use during 
the 12-month period in order to be available to meet a commitment 
pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Allocations.>> That the Secretary shall, to the extent 
necessary to stay within the amount provided under the second proviso 
under this section, pro rate each public housing agency's allocation 
otherwise established pursuant to this section: Provided further, That

[[Page 121 STAT. 52]]

except as provided in the following proviso, the entire amount provided 
under the second proviso under this section shall be obligated to the 
public housing agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method 
described above: Provided further, That public housing agencies 
participating in the Moving to Work demonstration shall be funded 
pursuant to their Moving to Work agreements and shall be subject to the 
same pro rata adjustments under the previous proviso:  Provided further, 
That from amounts provided under the second proviso of this section up 
to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for adjustments for public 
housing agencies that experienced a significant increase, as determined 
by the Secretary, in renewal costs resulting from unforeseen 
circumstances or from the portability under section 8(r) of the Act of 
tenant-based rental assistance; and (2) for adjustments for public 
housing agencies that could experience a significant decrease in voucher 
funding that could result in the risk of loss of voucher units due to 
the shift to using VMS data based on a 12-month period: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under the second proviso of 
this section may be used to support a total number of unit months under 
lease which exceeds a public housing agency's authorized level of units 
under contract.

    ``Sec. 21034.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Public and Indian Housing of the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be as follows: `Project-Based 
Rental Assistance', $5,976,417,000, of which $5,829,303,000 shall be for 
activities specified in paragraph (1) under such heading in Public Law 
109-115 (119 Stat. 2442); `Public Housing Operating Fund', 
$3,864,000,000; and `Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund Program 
Account', $6,000,000: Provided, That such funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $251,000,000.
    ``Sec. 21035.  Of the unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds appropriated under the headings referred 
to under the heading `Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
Public and Indian Housing, Housing Certificate Fund' in Public Law 109-
115 (119 Stat. 2442) for fiscal year 2006 and prior years, 
$1,650,000,000 is rescinded: Provided, That the provisions under such 
heading shall be applied to such rescission by substituting `September 
30, 2007' for `September 30, 2006' and `2007 funding cycle' for `2006 
funding cycle'.
    ``Sec. 21036.  None of the funds appropriated by this division may 
be used for the following activities under the heading `Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, Public and Indian Housing' in Public Law 
109-115: the activities specified in the last three provisos under the 
heading `Public Housing Capital Fund' (119 Stat. 2444); and the first 
activity specified in the second proviso under the heading `Native 
American Housing Block Grants' (119 Stat. 2445).
    ``Sec. 21037.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for Community Planning and Development of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development shall be as follows: 
`Community Development Fund', $3,771,900,000, of which $3,710,916,000 
shall be for carrying out the community development block grant program 
under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as 
amended: Provided, That none of the funds made available by this section 
for such account may be used for grants for the Economic Development

[[Page 121 STAT. 53]]

Initiative, neighborhood initiatives, or YouthBuild program activities; 
`Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program', $49,390,000, 
of which $19,800,000 shall be for the Self Help Homeownership 
Opportunity Program as authorized under section 11 of the Housing 
Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended, and $29,590,000 
shall be made available through a competition for activities authorized 
by section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note); 
and `Homeless Assistance Grants', $1,441,600,000.
    ``Sec. 21038.  None of the funds appropriated by this division may 
be used for activities specified in the first proviso under the heading 
`Department of Housing and Urban Development, Housing Programs, Housing 
for the Elderly' in Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2452).
    ``Sec. 21039.  The first proviso in the first paragraph under the 
heading `Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Housing 
Administration, General and Special Risk Program Account' in Public Law 
109-115 (119 Stat. 2454) shall be applied in fiscal year 2007 by 
substituting ``$45,000,000,000'' for ``$35,000,000,000''.
    ``Sec. 21040.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of Housing and Urban Development, Policy Development and 
Research, Research and Technology' shall be $50,087,000: Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this section for such account may be 
used for activities under the first four provisos under such heading in 
Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2455).
    ``Sec. 21041.  Funds appropriated by this division for `Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Lead Hazard Control, Lead 
Hazard Reduction' shall be made available without regard to the 
limitations that are set forth after `needs' in the second proviso under 
such heading in Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2457).
    ``Sec. 21042.  <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 11319 note.>> The 
provisions of title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 11311 et seq.) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding section 
209 of such Act, through the earlier of: (1) the date specified in 
section 106 of this division; or (2) the date of the enactment into law 
of an authorization Act relating to the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act.

    ``Sec. 21043. (a) Section 579 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing 
Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `October 1, 2006' 
        and inserting `October 1, 2011'; and
            ``(2) in subsection (b), by striking `October 1, 2006' and 
        inserting `October 1, 2011'.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 1437f note.>> The repeal made 
by section 579(a)(1) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and 
Affordability Act of 1997 shall be deemed not to have taken effect 
before the date of the enactment of the Revised Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007, and subtitle A of such Act shall be in 
effect as if no such repeal had been made before such date of enactment.

    ``Sec. 21044.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence 
of section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, until the date 
specified in section 106 of this division, insure and enter into 
commitments to insure mortgages under section 255 of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)).

[[Page 121 STAT. 54]]

    ``Sec. 21045. Section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437v) is amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking `2003' and inserting 
        `2007'; and
            ``(2) in subsection (o), by striking ``September 30, 2006'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2007''.

    ``Sec. 21046.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 710 of Public Law 
109-115 (119 Stat. 2491) shall be applied to funds appropriated by this 
division by substituting `2007' and `30 days' for `2006' and `60 days', 
respectively.

    ``Sec. 21047.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 711 of Public Law 
109-115 (119 Stat. 2492) shall be applied to funds appropriated by this 
division by substituting `2007' for `2006' each place it appears, and by 
substituting `September 30, 2008' for `September 30, 2007'.

    ``Sec. 21048.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of the Treasury, Departmental Offices, Salaries and 
Expenses' shall be $215,167,000, of which not less than $23,826,000 
shall be for the following increases for the following activities: 
$9,352,000 to expand the overseas presence of the Department of the 
Treasury; $3,761,000 for intelligence analysts; $1,000,000 for 
additional secure workspace for intelligence analysts; $2,050,000 to 
support the Department of the Treasury's participation as co-lead agency 
in the Iraq Threat Finance Cell; $1,483,000 to support economic 
sanctions efforts against terrorist networks; $946,000 to support 
economic sanctions efforts against proliferators of Weapons of Mass 
Destruction; $542,000 for General Counsel support of the Office of 
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence; $492,000 for Chief Counsel support 
of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; and $4,200,000 to reimburse the 
United States Secret Service for the security detail to the Secretary of 
the Treasury.
    ``Sec. 21049.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Department of the Treasury, Departmental Offices, Department-wide 
Systems and Capital Investments Programs' shall be $30,268,000, of which 
not less than $6,100,000 shall be for an increase for the Treasury 
Foreign Intelligence Network.
    ``Sec. 21050.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts of the Internal Revenue Service shall be as 
follows: `Taxpayer Services', $2,142,042,391; `Enforcement', 
$4,708,440,879; `Operations Support', $3,461,204,720; `Health Insurance 
Tax Credit Administration', $14,846,000; and `Business Systems 
Modernization', $212,310,000.
    ``Sec. 21051.  Funds appropriated by section 101 of this division 
for the Internal Revenue Service may be obligated in the account and 
budget structure set forth in title II of H.R. 5576 (109th Congress), as 
passed by the House of Representatives.
    ``Sec. 21052.  <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>> Funds for the 
Internal Revenue Service for fiscal year 2007 under the `Taxpayer 
Services', `Enforcement', and `Operations Support' accounts may be 
transferred between the accounts and among budget activities to the 
extent necessary to implement the restructuring of the Internal Revenue 
Service accounts after notice of the amount and purpose of the transfer 
is provided to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate and a period of 30 days has elapsed:  
Provided, That the limitation on transfers is 10 percent in fiscal year 
2007.

    ``Sec. 21053.  Funds appropriated by this division for `Internal 
Revenue Service, Business Systems Modernization' are available for 
obligation without the prior approval of the Committees on

[[Page 121 STAT. 55]]

Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate for 
employee salaries and expenses.
    ``Sec. 21054. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `The 
Judiciary, Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $4,498,130,000, of which 
$20,371,000 shall be available for critically understaffed workload 
associated with immigration and other law enforcement needs.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 402 of Public Law 109-115, of the 
amount provided by this section, not to exceed $80,954,000 shall be 
available for transfer between accounts to maintain fiscal year 2006 
operating levels.
    ``Sec. 21055.  Notwithstanding section 101, within the amount 
provided by this division for `The Judiciary, Administrative Office of 
the United States Courts, Salaries and Expenses', $990,000 shall not be 
required for the National Academy of Public Administration for a review 
of the financial and management procedures of the Federal Judiciary.
    ``Sec. 21056.  <<NOTE: Courts. Kansas.>> Section 203(c) of the 
Judicial Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            ``(1) in the second sentence, by inserting `the district of 
        Kansas,' after `Except with respect to'; and
            ``(2) by inserting after the second sentence the following: 
        `The first vacancy in the office of district judge in the 
        district of Kansas occurring 16 years or more after the 
        confirmation date of the judge named to fill the temporary 
        judgeship created for such district under this subsection, shall 
        not be filled.'.

    ``Sec. 21057. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Office 
of National Drug Control Policy, Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center' shall be $20,000,000, which shall remain available until, and 
obligated and expended by, September 30, 2008, consisting of $10,000,000 
for counternarcotics research and development projects, of which up to 
$1,000,000 is to be directed to supply reduction activities, and 
$10,000,000 for the continued operation of the technology transfer 
program.
    ``(b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Office of National Drug Control Policy 
shall expend funds provided for `Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center' by Public Law 109-115 in accordance with the Joint Explanatory 
Statement of the Committee of Conference for Public Law 109-115 (House 
Report 109-307) within 60 days after the date of the enactment of this 
section.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Funding for counternarcotics research and 
development projects shall be available for transfer to other Federal 
departments or agencies within 45 days after the date of the enactment 
of this section. Any unexpended funds from previous fiscal years shall 
be expended in fiscal year 2007 to reinstate the demand instrumentation 
program as instructed in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the 
Committee of Conference for Public Law 109-115 (House Report 109-
307). <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate an accounting of fiscal year 
2006 funds, including funds that are unexpended for fiscal year 2007.

    ``Sec. 21058.  <<NOTE: Government organization.>> The structure of 
any of the offices or components within the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy shall remain as they were on October 1, 2006, and none of 
the funds appropriated

[[Page 121 STAT. 56]]

or otherwise made available by this division may be used to implement a 
reorganization of offices within the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy without the explicit approval of the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    ``Sec. 21059. (a) Funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this division for `Federal Drug Control Programs, High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Areas Program' shall remain available until September 30, 
2008.
    ``(b) <<NOTE: Plan. Deadlines.>> The Office of National Drug Control 
Policy shall submit a plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for the initial High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Areas allocation funding within 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this section and the discretionary High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Areas funding within 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section. Within the discretionary funding amount, 
$2,000,000 shall be available for new counties, not including previously 
funded counties, with priority given to meritorious applicants who have 
submitted applications previously and have not been funded.

    ``Sec. 21060.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Election 
Assistance Commission, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $16,236,000, of 
which $4,950,000 shall be transferred to the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology for election reform activities authorized under 
the Help America Vote Act of 2002.
    ``Sec. 21061.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for each of 
the following accounts for the General Services Administration shall be 
as follows: `Operating Expenses', $82,975,000; and `Office of Inspector 
General', $52,312,000.
    ``Sec. 21062.  <<NOTE: Government organization.>> Notwithstanding 
GSA Order ADM 5440 of December 21, 2006, the Office of Governmentwide 
Policy and the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs 
shall continue to exist and operate separately, and none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this division or any other 
Act may be used to establish or operate an Office of Congressional and 
Intergovernmental Affairs and Governmentwide Policy or any combination 
thereof without the explicit approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    ``Sec. 21063.  Notwithstanding section 101--
            ``(1) the aggregate amount of new obligational authority 
        provided under the heading `General Services Administration, 
        Real Property Activities, Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on 
        Availability of Revenue' for Federal buildings and courthouses 
        and other purposes of the Fund shall be $7,598,426,000, 
        including repayment of debt, of which not less than $280,872,000 
        shall be for courthouse construction, and not less than 
        $96,539,000 shall be for border station construction, and of 
        which $89,061,000 shall be from the additional amount provided 
        by paragraph (2) of this subsection;
            ``(2) for an additional amount to be deposited in the 
        `General Services Administration, Real Property Activities, 
        Federal Buildings Fund', $89,061,000 is appropriated, out of any 
        money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated;
            ``(3) the Administrator of General Services is authorized to 
        initiate design, construction, repair, alteration, leasing, and 
        other projects through existing authorities of the 
        Administrator: Provided, <<NOTE: Plan. Deadline.>> That the 
        General Services Administration shall submit a detailed plan, by 
        project, regarding the use of funds

[[Page 121 STAT. 57]]

        to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate within 30 days of enactment of 
        this section; and
            ``(4) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
        available in this division for the `General Services 
        Administration, Real Property Activities, Federal Buildings 
        Fund' may be obligated for the Coast Guard consolidation and 
        development of St. Elizabeths campus in the District of 
        Columbia.

    ``Sec. 21064.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Merit 
Systems Protection Board, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $35,814,000, 
together with not to exceed $2,579,000 for administrative expenses to 
adjudicate retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit 
Systems Protection Board.
    ``Sec. 21065.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `National 
Archives and Records Administration, Electronic Records Archives' shall 
be $45,214,000.
    ``Sec. 21066. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`National Archives and Records Administration, Repairs and Restoration' 
shall be $9,120,000.
    ``(b) Within the amount provided by this section, the following 
amounts shall not be required:
            ``(1) $1,485,000 for construction of a new regional archives 
        and records facility.
            ``(2) $990,000 for repair and restoration of a plaza 
        surrounding a presidential library.

    ``Sec. 21067. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`National Archives and Records Administration, Operating Expenses' shall 
be $278,235,000.
    ``(b) Within the amount provided by this section, $1,980,000 shall 
not be required for the initial move of records, staffing, and 
operations of a presidential library.
    ``Sec. 21068.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Section 403(f) of Public Law 
103-356 (31 U.S.C. 501 note) shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106 of this division for `October 1, 2006'.

    ``Sec. 21069.  The text of section 405 of the Ethics in Government 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended to read as follows: `There are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title such sums as may 
be necessary for fiscal year 2007'.
    ``Sec. 21070.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Office of 
Personnel Management, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $111,095,000, of 
which $6,913,170 shall remain available until expended for the 
Enterprise Human Resources Integration project and $1,435,500 shall 
remain available until expended for the Human Resources Line of Business 
project; and in addition $112,017,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including direct 
procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and insurance 
programs, of which $13,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems.
    ``Sec. 21071.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Office of 
Special Counsel, Salaries and Expenses' shall be $15,407,000.
    ``Sec. 21072.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `United 
States Postal Service, Payment to the Postal Service Fund' shall be 
$29,000,000; and, in addition, $6,915,000, which shall not be

[[Page 121 STAT. 58]]

available for obligation until October 1, 2007, and shall be in addition 
to amounts provided under section 109.
    ``Sec. 21073. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for 
`Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
for the District of Columbia', shall be $209,594,000, of which 
$133,476,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the Community 
Supervision and Sex Offender Registration, $45,220,000 shall be 
available to the Pretrial Services Agency, and $30,898,000 shall be 
transferred to the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia.
    ``(b) <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>> Notwithstanding section 
101, the level for `Federal Payment to the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia' shall be $20,000,000, and shall be 
used only for upgrading and expanding public transportation capacity, in 
accordance with an expenditure plan submitted by the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia not later than 60 days after the enactment of this 
section which details the activities to be carried out with such Federal 
Payment. Such Federal Payment may be applied to expenditures incurred as 
of October 1, 2006.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Charter schools.>> Notwithstanding section 101, any 
appropriation or funds made available to the District of Columbia 
pursuant to this division for `Federal Payment for School Improvement' 
which are made available to expand quality public charter schools in the 
District of Columbia shall remain available until expended to the extent 
that the appropriation or funds are used for public charter school 
credit enhancement and direct loans.

    ``(d) Notwithstanding section 101, no appropriation or funds shall 
be made available to the District of Columbia pursuant to this division 
with respect to any of the following items in the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2508 et seq.):
            ``(1) The item relating to `Federal Payment for the National 
        Guard Youth Challenge Program'.
            ``(2) The item relating to `Federal Payment for Marriage 
        Development and Improvement'.

    ``(e) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Federal Payment 
for Emergency Planning and Security Costs in the District of Columbia' 
shall be $8,533,000.
    ``(f) Notwithstanding section 101, the level for `Defender Services 
in District of Columbia Courts' shall be $43,475,000.
    ``(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, except 
section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local funds for 
programs and activities under the heading `District of Columbia Funds' 
for such programs and activities under title V of H.R. 5576 (109th 
Congress), as passed by the House of Representatives, at the rate set 
forth under `District of Columbia Funds, Summary of Expenses' as 
included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Proposed Budget and Financial Plan 
submitted to the Congress by the District of Columbia on June 5, 2006 as 
amended on January 16, 2007.
    ``(h) Section 203(c) of the 2005 District of Columbia Omnibus 
Authorization Act (Public Law 109-356; 120 Stat. 2038) is amended by 
striking `6 months' and inserting `1 year'.
    ``(i) <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>> Not later than 60 days 
after the enactment of this section, the Mayor of the District of 
Columbia shall submit a plan for the expenditure of the funds made 
available to the District of Columbia pursuant to this division to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.

[[Page 121 STAT. 59]]

    ``Sec. 21074.  Within the amount provided by this division for 
`Other Federal Drug Control Programs', the following amount shall not be 
required: $1,980,000 as a directed grant to the Community Anti-Drug 
Coalitions of America for the National Community Anti-Drug Coalition 
Institute, as authorized in chapter 2 of the National Narcotics 
Leadership Act of 1988, as amended.
    ``Sec. 21075.  Within the amount provided by this division for 
`Other Federal Drug Control Programs', $1,980,000 is provided, as 
authorized, under the Drug-Free Communities Support Program, for 
training, technical assistance, evaluation, research, and capacity 
building for coalitions.
    ``Sec. 21076.  Notwithstanding section 101, no funds shall be 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this division for the 
following accounts of the Department of the Treasury: `Air 
Transportation Stabilization Program Account'; and `Treasury Building 
and Annex Repair and Restoration'.
    ``Sec. 21077.  For purposes of this division, section 206 of Public 
Law 109-115 shall not apply.
    ``Sec. 21078.  <<NOTE: 2 USC 457.>> (a) The Federal Election 
Commission may charge and collect fees for attending or otherwise 
participating in a conference sponsored by the Commission, and 
notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, any 
amounts received from such fees during a fiscal year shall be credited 
to and merged with the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Commission during the year, and shall be available for use during 
the year for the costs of sponsoring such conferences.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2007 and each succeeding fiscal year.

              ``CHAPTER 11--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

    ``Sec. 21101.  Not to exceed $155,600,000 shall be transferred to 
`Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security 
Administration, Expenses', to liquidate obligations incurred against 
funds appropriated in fiscal years 2002 and 2003, of which $150,300,000 
shall be from unobligated balances currently available to the 
Transportation Security Administration, $300,000 shall be from 
unobligated balances currently available to the Office of the Secretary 
and Executive Management, and $5,000,000 shall be from unobligated 
balances currently available to the Under Secretary for Management: 
Provided, That the Transportation Security Administration shall not 
utilize any unobligated balances from the following programs: screener 
partnership program; explosive detection system purchase; explosive 
detection system installation; checkpoint support; aviation regulation 
and other enforcement; air cargo; air cargo research and development; 
and operation integration: Provided further, That of the funds 
transferred, $2,000,000 shall be from the `Secure Flight Program'; 
$100,000 shall be from the `Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary'; 
$100,000 shall be from the `Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental 
Affairs'; $100,000 shall be from the `Office of Public Affairs'; and 
$5,000,000 shall be from `MAX-HR Human Resource System'.

[[Page 121 STAT. 60]]

    ``This division may be cited as the `Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007'.''.

    Approved February 15, 2007.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 20:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 153 (2007):
            Jan. 31, considered and passed House.
            Feb. 8, 13, 14, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>